The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State.The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
Electronic marketing is regulated by Law 3471/2006 ‘for the protection of personal data and privacy in electronic communications’ (the 'Law’), in combination with the general provisions of Law 2472/1997 ‘for the protection of individuals from the processing of personal data’ (the 'Data Protection Act’).
According to the provisions of article 11 of the Law, data processing for electronic marketing purposes is allowed only upon the individuals’ prior express consent. The said article prohibits the use of automated calling systems for marketing purposes to subscribers that have previously declared to the public electronic communications services providers ('CSPs') that they do not wish to receive such calls in general. The CSPs must register these declarations for free on a separate publicly accessible list.
Personal data (such as e-mail addresses) that have been legally obtained in the course of sales of products, provision of services or any other transaction may be used for electronic marketing purposes, without the receiver’s prior consent thereto, provided that the receiver of such email has the possibility to 'opt out' for free to the collection and processing of his/ her personal data for the aforementioned purposes.
Direct marketing emails or advertising emails of any kind are absolutely prohibited, when the identity of the sender is disguised or concealed and also when no valid address, to which the receivers can address requests for the termination of such communications, is provided.Electronic marketing is regulated by Greek Law 3471/2006 ‘for the protection of personal data and privacy in electronic communications’, which transposes Directive 2002/85/EC into Greek Law, in conjunction with the GDPR.
According to the provisions of article 11 of Greek Law 3471/2006, data processing for electronic marketing purposes is allowed only upon the individuals’ express prior consent. Use of automated calling systems without human intervention for marketing purposes is prohibited in respect of subscribers that have declared to the public electronic communication services providers ('CSPs') that they do not wish to receive such calls.
Where a natural or legal person obtains from its customers their electronic contact details for electronic mail, in the context of the sale of a product or a service, the same natural or legal person may use these electronic contact details for direct marketing of its own similar products or services, &nbsp;without prior consent, provided that customers clearly and distinctly are given the opportunity to object, free of charge and in an easy manner, to such use of electronic contact details when they are collected and on the occasion of each message in case the customer has not initially refused such use.