Articles 4 and 6 of the Law (as amended by Directive 2009/136/EC) deals with the collection of location and traffic data by CSPs and the use of cookies and similar technologies.
Traffic data
Traffic data of subscribers or users held by a CSP must be erased or anonymized after the termination of a communication, unless they are retained for one the following reasons:

The billing of subscribers and the payment of interconnections, provided that the subscribers are informed of the categories of traffic data that are being processed and the duration of processing, which must not exceed 12 months from the date of the communication (unless the bill is doubtable or unpaid).&nbsp;
Marketing of electronic communications services or value added services, to the extent that traffic data processing is absolutely necessary and following the subscriber’s or the user’s prior express consent thereto, after his / her notification regarding the categories of traffic data that are being processed and the duration of the processing. Such consent may be freely recalled. The provision of electronic communication services by the CSP must not depend on the subscriber’s consent to the processing of his/her traffic data for other purposes (eg, marketing purposes).

Location data
Location data may only be processed for the provision of value added services, only if such data are anonymized or with the subscriber’s / user’s express consent, to the extent and for the duration for which such processing is absolutely necessary. The CSP must previously notify the user or the subscriber of the categories of location data that are being processed, the purposes and the duration of the processing as well as of the third parties to which the data will be transmitted for value added services provision. The subscriber’s / user’s consent may be freely recalled and the 'opt-out' possibility must be provided to the subscriber by the CSP free of charge and with simple means, every time he is connected to the network or in each transmission of communication.
Location data processing is allowed exceptionally without the subscriber’s / user’s prior consent to authorities dealing with emergencies, such as prosecution authorities, first aid or fire-brigade authorities, when the location of the caller is necessary for serving such emergency purposes.
Cookie compliance
The use and storage of cookies and similar technologies is allowed when the subscriber / user has provided his express consent, after his / her comprehensive and detailed notification by the CSP. The subscriber’s consent may be provided through the necessary browser adjustments or through the use of other applications.
The latter do not prevent the technical storage or use of cookies for purposes relating exclusively to the transmission of a communication through&nbsp;an electronic communications network or the provision of an information society service for which the subscriber or the user has specifically requested. The Data Protection Authority is the competent authority for the issuance of an Act, which will regulate the ways such services will be provided and the subscribers’ consent will be declared.Articles 4 and 6 of Greek Law 3471/2006 regulate collection of location and traffic data by CSPs and the use of cookies and similar technologies.
Traffic data
Traffic data held by a CSP must be in principle erased or anonymized upon termination of the communication to which they refer. The aforementioned rule does not apply with regard to traffic data retained for billing, marketing and law enforcement purposes. &nbsp;&nbsp;
Location data
Location data may only be processed for the provision of value added services, only if they are anonymized or upon subscriber’s / user’s express consent, unless processing and disclosure of such data to public authorities is necessary in case of emergency.
Cookies compliance
Rules on use of cookies and similar technologies are set forth in the HDPA Guidance Note on “the use of cookies and other tracking technologies”.&nbsp; The use and storage of cookies and similar technologies is allowed when the subscriber / user has provided his express consent. The subscriber’s consent may be provided by means of cookie pop-up or banners and shall meet GDPR consent requirements.
Use of cookies for purposes relating exclusively to the transmission of a communication through an electronic communications network or the provision of an information society service for which the subscriber or the user has specifically requested, are exempted from aforementioned requirement.