Security
The GDPR is not prescriptive about specific technical standards or measures. Rather, the GDPR adopts a proportionate, context-specific approach to security. Article 32 states that controllers and processors shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk of the processing. In so doing, they must take account of the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing. A 'one size fits all' approach is therefore the antithesis of this requirement.
However the GDPR does require controllers and processors to consider the following when assessing what might constitute adequate security:

the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems and services;
the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident; and
a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures for ensuring the security of the processing.
Greek Law does not provide for additional requirements in relation to security measures other than those set forth in the GDPR. Only with regard to special categories of data, the Law provides an indicative list of the security measures, which should be taken. More specifically, when processing special categories of personal data, appropriate security measures to safeguard the data subject’s interests should be adopted. Such measures may include:

Technical and organizational measures to ensure that processing complies with the GDPR.
Measures to verify and establish whether and by which party personal data were fed into, altered or removed.
Data Protection awareness
Data classification and access rights
Designation of a DPO
Pseudonymization of personal data
Encryption of personal data
Measures to restore confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems and services, including the ability to restore availability and access to data in the event of physical or technical incident
Process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing.
