"Personal data" is defined as "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person" (Article 4 of the GDPR). A low bar is set for "identifiable" – if the natural person can be identified using “all means reasonably likely to be used” (Recital 26 of the GDPR) the information is personal data. A name is not necessary either – any identifier will do, such as an identification number, phone number, location data or other factors which may identify that natural person.
Online identifiers are expressly called out in Recital 30, with IP addresses, cookies and RFID tags all listed as examples.
The GDPR creates more restrictive rules for the processing of "special categories" (Article 9) of personal data (including data relating to race, religion, sexual life, data pertaining to health, genetics and biometrics) and personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences (Article 10).&nbsp;
NLOPD is extremely restrictive regarding the processing of criminal convictions and offences data, that shall be forbidden except in very exceptional circumstances. Spain deviates itself notably in this regard from the standard position in the EU, where this prohibition is not usually so strict.&nbsp;
The GDPR is concerned with the "processing" of personal data. Processing has an extremely wide meaning, and includes any set of operations performed on data, including the mere storage, hosting, consultation or deletion of the data.
Personal data may be processed by either a "controller" or a "processor". The controller is the decision maker, the person who "alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data" (Article 4). The processor "processes personal data on behalf of the controller", acting on the instructions of the controller. In contrast to the previous law, the GDPR imposes direct obligations on both the controller and the processor, although fewer obligations are imposed on the processor.
The "data subject" is a living, natural person whose personal data are processed by either a controller or a processor.&nbsp;
Despite following GDPR’s approach in this regard, NLOPD does also regulate certain features related to personal data of deceased people.&nbsp;Last modified 17 Jan 2022
				
			