The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (e.g. an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, since the AEPD defends the viewpoint that e-Marketing laws are more specific than GDPR/NLOPD and shall prevail on the latter when data protection and e-marketing elements do concur (a problem that would not be present when marketing deliverables are provided off electronic channels, in which case other legal bases for processing, like the legitimate interest of the sponsor could be considered again).&nbsp;&nbsp; Where consent is relied upon, AEPD claims that the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is expected to be replaced very soon by a EU-level Regulation, whose drafting procedures are nearly finalised. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive shall be replaced, the AEPD claims, with the GDPR standard for consent.
Electronic Marketing is regulated in Spain specifically by the Spanish Act on the Information Society Services and e-Commerce 34/2002 ('LSSI'). The general principle is that deliveries of electronic marketing materials are lawful only if they have been explicitly authorised in advance by the recipients (authorisation that is required not just for individuals, but also where the recipient is a legal entity, broadening here the scope of Spanish Data Protection Act). An exception to this general principle applies to deliveries to clients when the materials refer to products/services that are equal or similar to the ones sold to them in the past by the company sponsoring the advertisement.
Electronic publicity shall:

be clearly marked as such by means of the terms PUBLI or PUBLICIDAD placed inside the subject line, &nbsp;
allow the recipient to opt-out at all times, even&nbsp;at the time of registration, and &nbsp;
clearly identify the sponsor of the delivery. It is the sponsor of the delivery, not the electronic publicity company that shall be held liable in case of enforcement. Opt-out shall include an email address when the publicity was delivered by email too. Opt-out procedure shall be simple and free for the recipient of the publicity.

Enforcement shall include, inter alia, fines that, in most cases, shall be between EUR 30,000 and EUR 150,000.
The NLOPD states that databases containing the identification details of those data subjects who have expressed their opposition to receiving commercial communications may be created (the so-called “Robinson’s Lists”). These databases must be reviewed by the entities sending commercial communications (the access details to these databases will be published by the AEPD) unless the relevant data subjects have previously granted their consent to receiving such commercial communications.
Finally, it shall also be taken into account that that the NLOPD permits processing activities where the&nbsp;purpose is to avoid sending commercial communications to those data subjects who have expressed their opposition to receiving them.Last modified 17 Jan 2022
				
			