Fines
The UK GDPR empowers supervisory authorities to impose fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or GBP 17.5 million (whichever is higher).
It is the intention that fines should, where appropriate, be imposed by reference to the revenue of an economic undertaking rather than the revenues of the relevant controller or processor. Recital 150 of the UK GDPR states that 'undertaking' should be understood in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements between undertakings and abuse of a dominant position.
Fines are split into two broad categories.
The highest fines (Article 83(5)) of up to GBP 17.5 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is higher, apply to infringement of:

the basic principles for processing including conditions for consent;
data subjects’ rights;
international transfer restrictions;
any obligations imposed by domestic law for special cases such as processing employee data; and
certain orders of a supervisory authority.

The lower category of fines (Article 83(4)) of up to GBP 8.7 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 2% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is the higher, apply to infringement of:

obligations of controllers and processors, including security and data breach notification obligations;
obligations of certification bodies; and
obligations of a monitoring body.

The ICO is not required to impose fines but must ensure in each case that the sanctions imposed are effective, proportionate and dissuasive (Article 83(1)).
Fines can be imposed in combination with other sanctions.&nbsp; To date, the ICO has issued several fines under GDPR, ranging from GBP 275,000 to GBP 20 million.&nbsp;
Investigative and corrective powers
The ICO also enjoys wide investigative and corrective powers (Article 58) including the power to undertake on-site data protection audits and the power to issue public warnings, reprimands and orders to carry out specific remediation activities.
Right to claim compensation
The UK GDPR makes specific provision for individuals to bring private claims against controllers and processors:

any person who has suffered "material or non-material damage" as a result of a breach of the UK GDPR has the right to receive compensation (Article 82(1)) from the controller or processor. The inclusion of “non-material” damage means that individuals will be able to claim compensation for distress even where they are not able to prove financial loss.
data subjects have the right to mandate a consumer protection body to exercise rights and bring claims on their behalf (Article 80).

Individuals also enjoy the right to lodge a complaint with the ICO (Article 77).
All natural and legal persons, including individuals, controllers and processors, have the right to an effective judicial remedy against a decision of the ICO concerning them or for failing to make a decision (Article 78).
Data subjects enjoy the right to an effective legal remedy against a controller or processor (Article 79).
The DPA sets out the specific enforcement powers provided to the ICO pursuant to Article 58 of the UK GDPR, including:

information notices – requiring the controller or processor to provide the ICO with information;
assessment notices – permitting the ICO to carry out an assessment of compliance;
enforcement notices – requiring the controller or processor to take, or refrain from taking, certain steps; and
penalty notices – administrative fines.

The ICO has the power to conduct a consensual audit of a controller or a processor, to assess whether that organisation is complying with good practice in respect of its processing of personal data.
Under Schedule 15 of the DPA, the ICO also has powers of entry and inspection. These will be exercised pursuant to judicial warrant and will allow the ICO to enter premises and seize materials.
The DPA creates two new criminal offences in UK law: the re-identification of de-identified personal data without the consent of the controller and the alteration of personal data to prevent disclosure following a subject access request under Article 15 of the GDPR. The DPA retains existing UK criminal law offences, eg offence of unlawfully obtaining personal data.
The DPA requires the ICO to issue guidance on its approach to enforcement, including guidance about the circumstances in which it would consider it appropriate to issue a penalty notice, i.e. administrative fine.
The DPA also requires the ICO to publish statutory codes of practice on direct marketing and data sharing (preserving the position under the previous law).Last modified 27 Jan 2021
				
			