The Act does not refer to electronic marketing directly. Dishonestly receiving data, computer database or software is an offense. However, in a related development, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has made it mandatory for E-commerce FBOs (Food Business Operators) to obtain a license from the Central Licensing Authority. E-commerce FBO means any Food Business Operator carrying out any of the activities in section 3(n) of Food Safety &amp; Standards Act, 2006, through the medium of e-commerce. Interestingly, section 3(n) covers the entire food chain as it defines “food business” as any undertaking, whether for-profit or not, and whether public or private, carrying out any of the activities related to any stage of manufacture, processing, packaging, storage, transportation, distribution of food, import and includes food services, catering services, sale of food or food ingredients. Similarly, another set of legal Rules being referred as “E-commerce &amp; the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Amendment Rules, 2017,” effective from January 1, 2018, has made it mandatory for an e-commerce entity to ensure mandatory declarations about the commodity displayed on the digital and electronic network used for e-commerce transactions.
The consumer protection regime in India was recently overhauled by way of enactment of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (notified in July 2020) (CPA 2019). Under CPA 2019, sellers and service providers have the obligation to, among others, not engage in unfair trade practices including by way of misleading advertisements. Further, Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 (E-Commerce Rules) have been notified under the CPA to regulate e-commerce entities in India. An ‘e-commerce entity’ has been defined to mean any person who owns, operates or manages digital or electronic facility or platform for electronic commerce, but does not include a seller offering his goods or services for sale on a marketplace e-commerce entity. E-commerce entities are required to set up a proper grievance redressal mechanism and consumer complaints should be acknowledged by the grievance officer within a stipulated timeline. E-commerce entities are further required to, among others, provide information in relation to refund, exchange, warranty, delivery, mode of payment, fees and charges, grievance process and other relevant information on their platform. The price (total and a break up) of goods or services should be mentioned clearly and misleading advertisements and misrepresentation are prohibited.
The Privacy Rules also provide the right to "opt out" of email marketing, and the company's privacy policy must address marketing and information collection practices. Further, the National Do Not Call (NDNC) Registry is effectively implemented by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI). TRAI has also established the Telecom Commercial Communication Customer Preference Portal, ie, a national data base containing a list of the telephone numbers of all subscribers who have registered their preferences regarding the receipt of commercial communications. Telemarketing companies may lose their license for repeated violation of DNC norms.Last modified 30 Nov 2021
				
			