At present, the Information Technology Act, 2000 (the Act) and rules notified thereunder largely govern data protection in India.
On August 24, 2017, a Constitutional Bench of nine judges of the Supreme Court of India in&nbsp;Justice K.S.Puttaswamy (Retd.)&nbsp;v.&nbsp;Union of India&nbsp;[Writ Petition No. 494/ 2012] upheld that privacy is a fundamental right, which is entrenched in Article 21 [Right to Life &amp; Liberty] of the Constitution. This led to the formulation of a comprehensive Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 (the PDP Bill)1. The enactment of the PDP Bill will overhaul the personal data protection and regulatory regime in India. Until such time, the Act and rules provided therein govern data privacy in India. The PDP Bill is currently pending consideration of the Indian Parliament and may undergo significant changes to its current form, based on a report submitted by a Joint Parliamentary Committee formed to analyse the PDP Bill. The PDP Bill is expected to come into effect in early 2022.
India’s IT Ministry adopted the Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules (Privacy Rules), notified under the Act. The Privacy Rules, which took effect in 2011, require corporate entities collecting, processing and storing personal information, including sensitive personal information, to comply with certain procedures. It distinguishes both ‘personal information’ and ‘sensitive personal information’, as defined below.
In August 2011, India’s Ministry of Communications and Information issued a ‘Press Note’ Technology (Clarification on the Privacy Rules), which provided that any Indian outsourcing service provider/organization providing services relating to the collection, storage, dealing or handling of sensitive personal information or personal information under contractual obligation with any legal entity located within or outside India is not subject to collection and disclosure of information requirements, including the consent requirements discussed below, provided that they do not have direct contact with the data subjects (providers of information) when providing their services.
As stated above, India is in the process of overhauling its personal data protection regime. However, there is a possibility of a new regulatory framework for non-personal data in India. The Ministry of Electronics &amp; Information Technology in the year 2019 formed a committee to make recommendations for the consideration of the Central Government on the regulation of non-personal data (NPD) and released its report on non-personal data governance framework (the NPD Report). The NPD Report defines NPD as data which is not personal data as defined under the PDP Bill or data without any personally identifiable information. The NPD Report, among others, recommends that appropriate standards of anonymization of NPD be defined to prevent/minimize the risks of re-identification. It remains to be seen if NPD will also be regulated under the PDP Bill and how it will impact various stakeholders.FootnotesNote 1: This Bill was introduced in the Lower House of the Parliament on December 11, 2019. &nbsp;It proposes a legal framework to protect the autonomy of individuals in relation to their personal data, to specify where the flow and usage of personal data is appropriate, to create a relationship of trust between persons and entities processing their personal data, to specify the rights of individuals whose personal data are processed, to create a framework for implementing organizational and technical measures in processing personal data, to lay down norms for cross-border transfers of personal data, to ensure the accountability of entities processing personal data, to provide remedies for unauthorized and harmful processing, and to establish a Data Protection Authority for overseeing processing activities. The PDP Bill is pending consideration of the Indian Parliament.