The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (e.g. an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation, however, the EU states have not yet been able to agree on the draft legislation. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC shall be construed as references to the GDPR.. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
In general, unsolicited electronic marketing requires prior opt-in consent. The opt-in requirement is waived under the ‘same service/product’ exemption. The exemption concerns marketing emails related to the same products/services as previously purchased from the sender by the user provided that:

the user has been informed of the right to opt-out prior to the first marketing email
the user did not opt-out, and
the user is informed of the right to opt-out of any marketing email received. The exemption applies to electronic communication such as electronic text messages and email but does not apply with respect to communications sent by fax.

Direct marketing emails must not disguise or conceal the identity of the sender.Pursuant to the GDPR, where personal data are processed for direct marketing purposes, the data subject shall have the right to object at any time to the&nbsp;processing of personal data concerning him or her for such marketing, which includes profiling to the extent that it is related to such direct marketing. Where the data subject objects to processing for direct marketing purposes, the personal data shall no longer be processed for such purposes.
Electronic marketing shall be in particular governed by Act No. 351/2011 Coll. on Electronic Communications, as amended (the "ECA").
Under the ECA, processing of the traffic data of a subscriber or user for the purposes of marketing services or the&nbsp;purposes of ensuring value added services by any public network or service providers is possible solely with the prior consent of the subscriber or the user. Prior to obtaining the consent, the public network or service providers are obliged to inform the subscriber or user on:

the type of the traffic data processed;
the purpose of the traffic data processing, and
the duration of the data processing.

For the purposes of direct marketing, the call or use of automatic calls and communications systems without human intervention, facsimile machines, e-mail, including SMS messages to the subscriber or user, who is a natural person, is allowed solely with his/her prior consent. Such consent&nbsp;must be provable. Users or subscribers are entitled to withdraw such consent at any time.
The prior consent of the recipient of a marketing e-mail shall not be required in the case of direct marketing of similar products and the services of a person, that has obtained electronic contact information of the recipient from the previous sale of its own product and/or service to such recipient and in line with the provisions of the ECA.
The recipient of an e-mail shall be entitled to refuse at anytime, by simple means and free, of charge such use of electronic contact information at the time of its collection and on the occasion of each message delivered&nbsp;where the recipient has not already refused such use.
Both,

sending e-mails for the purposes of direct marketing without the determination of a valid address to which the recipient may send a request that he/she is no longer willing to receive such communication, and
encouragement to visit a website in contradiction with a special regulation,

shall be prohibited.
New Act No. 452/2021 Coll. on Electronic Communications (the "Act") will take effect on 1 February 2022 and replace the ECA. Among other things, the new Act is intended to strengthen the protection of personal data in connection with use of electronic communications services by introducing sanctions for unauthorized use of Cookies, which have been lacking in the ECA.