As regards the protection of privacy and protection of personal data processed in the electronic communications sector, the provisions of the ECA (Act No. 351/2011 Coll. on e-communications) shall apply. The ECA implemented e.g. Directive 2002/58/EC (as amended by Directive 2009/136/EC).
Under the ECA, the public network or service provider is obliged to ensure technically and organisationally the confidentiality of the communications and related traffic data, which are conveyed by means of its public network and public services. In particular recording, listening, or storage of data (or other kinds of an interception or a surveillance of communications and data related thereto) by persons other than users, or without the consent of the concerned users, shall be prohibited. However, this does not prohibit the technical storage of data, which is necessary for the conveyance of communications. However, the principle of confidentiality shall still apply.
Further to this, the network or service provider (‘undertaking company’) shall not be held liable for the protection of the conveyed information if such information can be directly listened to or obtained at the location of the broadcasting and/or reception.
However, this ban does not apply to temporary recording and storing of messages and related traffic data if it is required:

for the provision of value added services ordered by a subscriber or user;
to prove a request to establish, change or withdraw the service, or
to prove the existence or validity of other legal acts, which the subscriber, user or undertaking company has made.

Article 5 (3) of Directive No. 2002/58/EC of the European parliament and of the Council on concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communications) was implemented into Section 55 of the ECA. Under Section 55 (5) of the ECA: “every person that stores or gains access to information stored in the terminal equipment of a user shall be authorised for that only if the user concerned has given his consent on the basis of clear and comprehensive information about the purpose of the processing; this shall not prevent any technical storage of data or access hereof for the sole purpose of the conveyance or facilitation of the conveyance of a communication by means of a network or if strictly necessary for the provider of an information society service to provide information society services if explicitly requested by the user.”
Processing of cookies requires an opt-in consent of the user. The consent to cookies must be based on provision of comprehensive information on the data processing. The best practice is to provide the user with clear and comprehensive information about all processed cookies including those that are strictly necessary.
Cookies that are strictly necessary in order to provide the information society service (explicitly requested by the user), i.e. required only for the functioning of the website, may be processed without a user's consent (strictly necessary exemption).&nbsp;Traffic Data
Traffic Data can only be processed for the purpose of the conveyance of a communication on an electronic communications network or for the invoicing thereof. The Traffic Data related to subscribers or users may not be stored without the consent of the person concerned and the undertaking company is required, after the end of a communication transmission, without delay, to destroy or make anonymous such Traffic Data, except as provided otherwise by the ECA.
If it is necessary for the invoicing of the subscribers and network interconnection payments, the undertaking company is required to store the Traffic Data until the expiration of the period during which the invoice may be legally challenged or the claim for the payment may be asserted. The undertaking company is required to provide the Traffic Data to the Office of Electronic Communication and Postal Services or the court in the case of a dispute between undertaking companies or between an undertaking company and a subscriber. The scope of the stored Traffic Data must be limited to the minimum necessary.&nbsp;
Location Data
The undertaking company may process the Location Data other than the Traffic Data which relates to the subscriber or the user of a public network or public service only if the data are made anonymous or the processing is done with user consent, and in the scope and time necessary for the provision of the value added service. The undertaking company must, prior to obtaining consent, inform the subscriber or user of the Location Data other than Traffic Data which will be processed, on the type of Location Data to be processed, on the purpose and duration of the processing, and whether the data will be provided to a third party for the purpose of the provision of the value added service. The subscriber or user may revoke its consent for the processing of Location Data at any time.
Following the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 8 April 2014 in the joined cases of Digital Rights Ireland (C-293/12) and&nbsp;Kärtner Landesregierung&nbsp;(C-594/12) which cancelled so called "data retention" Directive 2006/24/EC, the Constitutional Court of Slovak Republic on 29 April 2015 issued a Judgement (PL. ÚS 10/2014-78) ("Judgement") upon which the Constitutional Court proclaimed the certain provisions of the ECA to be non-compliant with the provisions of the Constitution of Slovak Republic, provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and with the provisions of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Upon the Judgment, the obligation of the telecommunications operators to retain the Traffic Data and Location Data about the electronic communication of all citizens for the prescribed period (6/12 months) was abolished and removed from the ECA.