The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47).&nbsp;Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.The Personal Data Protection Act does not introduce any rules relating specifically to e-marketing. As the legal grounds for processing of personal data under the GDPR are also applicable in the area of e-marketing, the explicit consent of the data subject is likely to be the most suitable ground for the purposes of e-marketing. In certain cases, such processing may also be justified by legitimate interest&nbsp;– according to Recital 47 of the GDPR, direct marketing could be based on legitimate interest, to the extent that: (i) it is targeted only to existing customers; and (ii) the customers can reasonably expect to receive direct e-marketing communications. Still, the possibility to rely on legitimate interest for the purposes of e-marketing would need to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
In addition, although the repeal of the provision of the &nbsp;Personal Data Protection Act regulating the right of the data subject to object to any data processing for the purposes of direct marketing and does not explicitly refer to the respective provision of the GDPR, following the direct effect of the regulation, data subjects shall still be entitled to object before the data controller or the data processor to their personal data being processed for the purposes of e-marketing.
The Bulgarian&nbsp;Electronic Communications&nbsp;Act explicitly requires, when it comes to direct marketing to natural persons, the opt-in mechanic to be mandatorily applied. After the natural person's consent is provided, the person shall always be given the opportunity to opt out from the direct marketing network and refuse his / her personal data to be further processed for such purposes.