Fines
The GDPR empowers supervisory authorities to impose fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or EUR 20 million (whichever is higher).
It is the intention of the European Commission that fines should, where appropriate, be imposed by reference to the revenue of an economic undertaking rather than the revenues of the relevant controller or processor. Recital 150 of the GDPR states that 'undertaking' should be understood in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements between undertakings and abuse of a dominant position. Unhelpfully, the Treaty does not define ‘undertaking’ and the extensive case-law is not entirely straightforward, with decisions often turning on the specific facts of each case. However, in many competition cases, group companies have been regarded as part of the same undertaking. The assessment will turn on the facts of each case, and the first test cases under the GDPR will need to be scrutinized carefully to understand the interpretation of ‘undertaking’. Under EU competition law case-law, there is also precedent for regulators to impose joint and several liability on parent companies for fines imposed on those subsidiaries in some circumstances (broadly where there is participation or control), so-called "look through" liability. Again, it remains to be seen whether there will be a direct read-across of this principle into GDPR enforcement.
Fines are split into two broad categories.&nbsp;The highest fines (Article 83(5)) of up to EUR 20 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is higher, apply to infringement of:

the basic principles for processing including conditions for consent;
data subjects’ rights;
international transfer restrictions;
any obligations imposed by Member State law for special cases&nbsp;such as processing employee data; and
certain orders of a supervisory authority.

The lower category of fines (Article 83(4)) of up to EUR 10 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 2% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is the higher, apply to infringement of:

obligations of controllers and processors, including security and data breach notification obligations;
obligations of certification bodies; and
obligations of a monitoring body.

Supervisory authorities are not required to impose fines but must ensure in each case that the sanctions imposed are effective, proportionate and dissuasive (Article 83(1)).
Fines can be imposed in combination with other sanctions.
Investigative and corrective powers
Supervisory authorities also enjoy wide investigative and corrective powers (Article 58) including the power to undertake on-site data protection audits and the power to issue public warnings, reprimands and orders to carry out specific remediation activities.
Right to claim compensation
The GDPR makes specific provision for individuals to bring private claims against controllers and processors:

any person who has suffered "material or non-material damage" as a result of a breach of the GDPR has the right to receive compensation (Article 82(1)) from the controller or processor. The inclusion of “non-material” damage means that individuals will be able to claim compensation for distress even where they are not able to prove financial loss.
data subjects have the right to mandate a consumer protection body to exercise rights and bring claims on their behalf (Article 80).

Individuals also enjoy the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority (Article 77).&nbsp;
All natural and legal persons, including individuals, controllers and processors, have the right to an effective judicial remedy against a decision of a supervisory authority concerning them or for failing to make a decision (Article 78).
Data subjects enjoy the right to an effective legal remedy against a controller or processor (Article 79).The functions of supervision and control of the compliance with the GDPR in Bulgaria are shared between the Commission for Personal Data Protection and the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, the latter having competence only with regards to data processing by courts, prosecution offices and criminal investigative bodies in their capacity as judicial authorities.
The competences of the Commission are further defined by reference to art. 57 and 58 of the GDPR. Apart from performing the powers under the GDPR, the Commission is also entitled to:

analyze and carry out overall supervision and ensure compliance with the GDPR, the Personal Data Protection Act and the legislative acts in the area of personal data protection;
issue secondary legislation in the area of personal data protection;
ensure the implementation of the decisions of the European Commission on the protection of personal data and the implementation of binding decisions of the European Data Protection Supervisor
participate in international cooperation between data protection authorities and international organizations on personal data protection issues;
participate in the negotiation and conclusion of bilateral or multilateral agreements on matters within its competence;
organize, coordinate and conduct training in the field of personal data protection;
issue administrative acts related to its authority in the cases provided for by law;
adopt criteria for the accreditation of certification bodies;
bring proceedings before the court for breach of the GDPR;
issue mandatory instructions, give instructions and recommendations regarding the protection of personal data;
impose coercive administrative measures.

The internal Rules of Procedure of the Commission further clarify its tasks, procedures and rules for work of its administration, as well as rules for the proceedings before the Commission.
The Personal Data Protection Act does not derogate from the provisions of the GDPR regarding administrative sanctions, but directly refers to the amounts of fines and pecuniary sanctions set out by the GDPR and the respective criteria for their determination. The Personal Data Protection Act specifies that all sanctions shall be imposed in the BGN equivalent of the EUR amounts set by the GDPR.
For other violations under the Personal Data Protection Act the data controller / data processor shall be subject to a fine or a pecuniary sanction of up to BGN 5000.
The Commission's decisions are subject to appeal before the Administrative Court Sofia within 14 days of receipt. Decisions of the Administrative Court are subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court which decisions are final.&nbsp;
In case of a violation of his / her rights under the GDPR and the Personal Data Protection Act, every data subject is entitled to refer the matter to the Commission for Personal Data Protection within one year of becoming aware of the breach, but no later than five years from the breach taking place. In addition, data subjects shall be entitled to appeal the actions and acts of the data controller / data processor directly before the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court, except where there are pending proceedings before the Commission for the same matter if a decision regarding the same breach has been appealed and there is not yet a court decision in force. The transfer or distribution of computer or system passwords which results in the illegitimate disclosure of personal data constitutes a crime under the Bulgarian Criminal Code (promulgated in the State Gazette No. 26 of April 2, 1968, as amended periodically) and the penalty for such a crime includes imprisonment for up to three years.