The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.Bulgaria implemented the EU Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC with the Personal Data Protection Act (In Bulgarian: Закон за защита на личните данни), promulgated in the State Gazette No. 1 of January 4, 2002, as amended periodically (Act). The Act came into force on January 1,&nbsp;2002.
In&nbsp;view of the entry into force of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation&nbsp;– 'GDPR'), the Personal Data Protection Act was amended by a &nbsp;law for amendment and supplementation which was promulgated in the State Gazette No. 17 of February 26,2019.
The Personal Data Protection Act as amended (hereinafter referred to as the 'Personal Data Protection Act) serves a twofold purpose – it effectively implements the GDPR into national legislation and also transposes Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.
The Personal Data Protection Act complements the GDPR by providing regulation to matters in the field of personal data processing that have not been explicitly covered by the GDPR, or where the GDPR has left room for the exercise of legislative discretion. As the regulation has direct effect and is applicable in all EU member-states without the need of adopting a designated legislative act, the Bulgarian legislator has adopted the approach of directly referring to and implementing the GDPR without repeating the core provisions of the regulation in the Personal Data Protection Act.
Under the Personal Data Protection Act the role of supervising authority is shared between the Commission for Personal Data Protection and the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, the latter having competence only with regards to data processing by courts, prosecution offices and criminal investigative bodies in their capacity as judicial authorities. The Personal Data Protection Act further regulates the legal remedies in cases of violation of personal data law, the accreditation and certification in the field of personal data protection, the administrative liability and the administrative measures in cases of violations of its provisions.