There are no EU-wide systems of registration or notification and Recital 89 of the GDPR seeks to prohibit indiscriminate general notification obligations. However, Member States may impose notification obligations for specific activities (eg, processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences). The requirement to consult the supervisory authority in certain cases following a data protection impact assessment (Article 36) constitutes a notification requirement. In addition, each controller or processor must communicate the details of its data protection officer (where it is required to appoint one) to its supervisory authority (Article 37(7)).
In many ways, external accountability to supervisory authorities via registration or notification is superseded in the GDPR by rigorous demands for internal accountability. In particular, controllers and processors are required to complete and maintain comprehensive records of their data processing activities (Article 30), which must contain specific details about personal data processing carried out within an organisation and must be provided to supervisory authorities on request. This is a sizeable operational undertaking.The requirement for registration of data controllers before the Commission for Personal Data Protection was repealed with the implementation of the GDPR.
Pursuant to the Personal Data Protection Act, the Commission for Personal Data Protection &nbsp;maintains the following public registers:

register of data controller and data processors who have appointed data protection officers containing the name of the data controller/ data processor, the name of the appointed data protection officer and its contact details;
register of the accredited certifying bodies under art. 14 containing information on the name and the contact details of the certifying body and on the period of validity of its accreditation;
register of codes of conduct which includes the name of the code, the name of the editor and the relevant certification body, information about the sector concerned and its content.

The Commission shall also support (a) an internal register of established breaches of the GDPR and the Personal Data Protection Act, (b) a register of the measures taken in accordance with art. 58, para 2 of the GDPR, and (c) a register of the personal data destroyed on a monthly basis by providers of public electronic communication networks and / or services in accordance with art. 251g of the Electronic Communications Act. These registers however, are not public.
In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for Personal Data Protection and its Administration, the above-mentioned registers are held in electronic format and should be updated regularly.