The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (e.g. an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47).&nbsp;&nbsp; Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
When dealing with e-marketing, it is necessary to bear in mind that it is quite strictly regulated in terms of Act No. 480/2004 Col. on Certain Services of Information Society ("CSIS") as well as other previously mentioned regulations (esp. the Data Protection Directive and the Act) and partially also by the Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications (“AOC”), being further described in the Online Privacy section.
CSIS states that before sending an e-mail containing marketing information, the consent of the receiver must be obtained (so called "opt-in" principle). In some cases, such as e-marketing sent to existing customers of the sender, the consent of the customer is implied until it is withdrawn (so called "opt-out" principle). Furthermore, each such message must contain clear and visible information that any further sending of such e-mails can be rejected by the receiver together with the sender's contact information and information on whose behalf the e-mail is being sent. Last but not least, each such e-mail must be clearly tagged as a commercial message.
In order to maintain e-marketing as an effective tool, its sender should operate with good-quality databases, which enable a direct targeting of the relevant message. The sender should ensure, in particular, that (i) he will duly obtain the right to use the database for e-marketing purposes and also that (ii) personal data in the database were lawfully obtained and can be lawfully disposed&nbsp; of by the database owner.
When processing personal data for marketing databases, it is necessary to abide strictly by the Act. All rules described above apply to e-marketing respectively.Last modified 21 Feb 2022
				
			