Online privacy is also supervised by the Office. Handling personal data is subject to the similar rules as mentioned above and specific issues are governed by Act No. 127/2005 Coll. on Electronic Communications (‘AEC’).
Consent to collection and processing of personal data may be expressed  by electronic means, especially by filling in an electronic form.
Public electronic communication service providers are obliged to ensure the security of the personal data they process which includes technical security and creation of internal organisational regulations.
In cases of a personal data breach a public electronic communication service provider is obliged to notify the Office "without necessary delay", and in the event that the breach of protection could very significantly affect the privacy of a certain individual, such person must be notified as well.
Apart from a few exceptions, traffic data held by a public electronic communication service provider must be erased or anonymised when it is no longer necessary for the transmission of a communication.
As regards cookies, the Czech law is still using the ‘opt-out’ principle because the user must be informed and explicitly allowed to refuse the cookies storage (no prior consent required). The ‘opt-in’ principle as introduced by the Directive 2009/136/EC has not been implemented into Czech law, although many state authorities, including the Office, publicly declared the opposite. Nevertheless, due to the above-mentioned ambiguity, we cannot exclude the risk that the Office will require the prior consent to be given by visitors of the relevant web-site according to the generally applicable obligation under the Act, if the relevant cookie is able to identify the specific user.
Relevant supervising and enforcing authorities in this area are primarily the Office and to some extent also the Czech Telecommunication Office.It is likely that an amendment to the Czech Electronic Communications Act will be effective as of 1 January 2022, which should bring a change from an opt-out to an opt-in regime. Thus, the use of cookies on a website should only be permitted if the visitor has given his or her demonstrable active consent to the scope and purpose of the processing.