Enforcement of the GDPR is the prerogative of data protection regulators, known as supervisory authorities (for example, the Cnil in France or the ICO in the UK). The European Data Protection Board (the replacement for the so-called Article 29 Working Party) is comprised of delegates from the supervisory authorities, and monitors the application of the GDPR across the EU, issuing guidelines to encourage consistent interpretation of the Regulation.
The GDPR creates the concept of "lead supervisory authority". Where there is cross-border processing of personal data (ie, processing taking place in establishments of a controller or processor in multiple Member States, or taking place in a single establishment of a controller or processor but affecting data subjects in multiple Member States), then the starting point for enforcement is that controllers and processors are regulated by and answer to the supervisory authority for their main or single establishment, the so-called "lead supervisory authority" (Article 56(1)).
However, the lead supervisory authority is required to cooperate with all other "concerned" authorities, and a supervisory authority in another Member State may enforce where infringements occur on its territory or substantially affect data subjects only in its territory (Article 56(2)).
The concept of lead supervisory authority is therefore of somewhat limited help to multinationals.The DP Act established the Data Protection Commission (“DPC") to act as the supervisory authority for data protection law in Ireland.
As well as supervising many domestic Irish businesses and organisations, the DPC also regulates many international and multi-national companies under the GDPR’s main establishment (or “one-stop shop”) regulatory mechanism.
Ireland has currently appointed one Commissioner for Data Protection, however, the DP Act provide that the DPC can consist of up to three members. In the event that there is more than one Commissioner, one of the Commissioners will be appointed as a Chairperson. In May 2019, Helen Dixon was appointed as Commissioner for Data Protection for a second five-year term.
The contact details of the DPC (or An Coimisiún um Chosaint &nbsp;Sonraí) are as follows:
Dublin office
21 Fitzwilliam Square South Dublin 2, D02 RD28 Ireland
Regional office
Canal HouseStation RoadPortarlingtonR32 AP23 Co. Laois Ireland
&nbsp;
Website
www.dataprotection.ie