The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (e.g. an email address&nbsp;which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate&nbsp;interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon,&nbsp;the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate&nbsp;clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely&nbsp;the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic&nbsp;marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive&nbsp;2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that&nbsp;references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive&nbsp;95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
The ePrivacy Regulations implement the anti-spam rules set out in Article 13 of the Privacy and Electronic Communications&nbsp;Directive 2002/58/EC (as amended by the Citizens’ Rights Directive). These regulations came into effect on 1 July 2011. Electronic&nbsp;mail includes text messages (SMS), voice messages, sound messages, image messages, multimedia message (MMS) and email&nbsp;messages.
Direct marketing emails can generally only be sent to users with their prior consent. A limited exemption is available for direct&nbsp;marketing emails sent to existing customers promoting other products or services similar to those previously purchased by that&nbsp;consumer (such emails can only be sent for 12 months, the customer must have been given the opportunity to object when the&nbsp;details were collected and the product or service being marketed must be a product or service offered by the person with the&nbsp;existing relationship with the customer). B2B direct marketing emails can generally be sent unless the recipient has informed the&nbsp;sender that it does not consent to the receipt of such messages.
The identity of the sender must not be disguised or concealed and the recipient must be offered an opt-out.
Direct marketing calls (excluding automated calls) may be made to a landline provided the subscriber has not previously objected&nbsp;to receiving such calls or noted his or her preference not to receive direct marketing calls in the National Directory Database.
Direct marketing calls cannot be made to a mobile phone without prior consent.
One cannot send a direct marketing fax to an individual subscriber in the absence of prior consent. One can send such a fax to a&nbsp;corporate subscriber unless that subscriber has previously instructed the sender that it does not wish to receive such&nbsp;communications or has recorded a general opt-out to receiving such direct marketing faxes in the National Directory Database.
Breach of these anti-spam rules is a criminal offence. On a summary prosecution (before a judge sitting alone) a maximum fine of&nbsp;EUR 5,000 per message sent can be handed down. On conviction on indictment (before a judge and jury) a company may be fined&nbsp;up to EUR 250,000 per message sent and an individual may be fined up to EUR 50,000 per message.The GDPR applies to most electronic marketing activities, as these will typically involve some use of personal data (e.g. an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47 of GDPR). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (“ePrivacy Directive”), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation though there remains uncertainty at an EU level as to when this legislation will be passed. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
In Ireland, the European Communities (Electronic Communications Networks and Services) (Privacy and Electronic Communications) Regulations 2011 (“ePrivacy Regulations”) implement the rules on electronic direct marketing set out in the ePrivacy Directive.
Direct marketing emails (which includes SMS and other text, voice, sound or image messages) can generally only be sent to users with their prior (opt-in) consent.
Two exemptions are available whereby emails can be sent on an opt-out basis:
Customer exception
Direct marketing emails may be sent on an opt-out basis to an existing customer promoting similar products or services to those purchased by that customer. Such emails can only be sent for 12 months from the date of sale to the customer, the customer must be given the opportunity to object both (1) when the details were collected, and (2) in each marketing message. Moreover, the product or service being marketed must be a product or service offered by the person with the existing relationship with the customer.
B2B exception
Business to business ("B2B") direct marketing emails can generally be sent unless the recipient has informed the sender that it does not consent to the receipt of such messages. To qualify for the B2B exception, an email address must reasonably appear to the sender to be an email address used mainly by the recipient in the context of their commercial or official activity and the marketing message must relate solely to that commercial or official activity.