The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.The Irish Data Protection Act 2018 (“DP Act”) came into force on 25 May 2018 in order to give further effect to the GDPR in Ireland. The DP Act includes certain derogations, provides for the establishment of a new Data Protection Commission, implements the Law Enforcement Directive and otherwise addresses procedural aspects of the enforcement of data protection in Ireland.
The previous data protection legislation in Ireland, the Data Protection Acts 1988 to 2003, were largely repealed by the DP Act, however those Acts continue to apply in relation to certain limited purposes including national security and defence. Additionally, the previous legislation continues to apply in relation to complaints or infringements which occurred prior to 25 May 2018 as well as to investigations commenced (but not completed) prior to that date.