Cookies
Consent is needed for the use of cookies unless the cookie is strictly necessary for the provision of a service to that subscriber or&nbsp;user. The 2011 Regulations expressly refer to the use of browser settings as a means to obtain consent. There is no express&nbsp;requirement for consent to be ‘prior’ to the use of a cookie. A user must be provided with ‘clear and comprehensive information’&nbsp;about the cookie (including, in particular, its purposes). This information must be prominently displayed and easily accessible. The&nbsp;methods adopted for giving information and obtaining consent should be as ‘user friendly’ as possible.&nbsp;The DPC has provided regulatory guidance on cookies and other tracking technologies which can be&nbsp;accessed here.
Location Data
One cannot process location data unless either:

such data has been made anonymous, or
user consent has been obtained.

A provider of electronic communication networks or services or associated facilities (ie a telco) must inform its users of:

the type of location data (other than traffic data) that will be processed
the purpose and duration of the processing, and
whether the data will be transmitted to a third party to provide a value added service. Users can withdraw their consentto the processing of location data.
Cookies
The use of cookies (and similar technologies) is regulated by the GDPR as well as the ePrivacy Regulations.
The ePrivacy Regulations provide that a person shall not use an electronic communications network to store information, or to gain access to information already stored in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user, unless (1) the subscriber or user has given his or her consent to that use, and (2) the subscriber or user has been provided with clear and comprehensive information which (a) is both prominently displayed and easily accessible, and (b) includes, without limitation, the purposes of the processing of the information.
The DPC’s guidance has confirmed that all cookies and tracking technology tools require consent, apart from two exceptions:

Communications exemption – a cookie whose sole purpose is to carry out the transmission of a communication over a network; and
Strictly necessary exemption – this applies to a service delivered over the internet (e.g. websites or apps) which have been explicitly requested by the user and the use of cookies is restricted to what is strictly necessary to provide that service.

The DPC indicated that enforcement action on compliance with its regulatory guidance for controllers would commence in October 2020.
Location data
The ePrivacy Regulations deal with the collection and use of location and traffic data by electronic communications network and service providers. Location data other than traffic data relating to users or subscribers of undertakings can only be processed if (1) such data are made anonymous, or (2) the consent of the users or subscribers has been obtained to the extent and for the duration necessary for the provision of a value added service.