The DPA enforces the DP Law. The DPA is authorized and obliged to monitor implementation of the DP Law, both ex officio, and upon a third-party complaint. If the DPA finds that a particular person or entity processing personal data acted in violation of data processing rules, it may request that the controller discontinue such processing and order specific measures to be carried out without delay.
When acting upon the complaints, the DPA may also issue a decision by which it can order blocking, erasing or destroying of data, adjustment or amendment of data, temporary or permanent ban of processing, issue warning or reprimand to the controller. The decision of the DPA may not be appealed; however, a party may initiate administrative dispute before the Court of BiH.
The DPA can initiate a misdemeanor proceeding against the respective data controller before the competent court, depending on the gravity of the particular misconduct and the data controller’s behavior with respect to the same. The offenses and sanctions are explicitly prescribed by the DP Law, which includes monetary fines for a controller in the amount between €2,550 and €51,100, as well as for the controller's authorized representative in the amount between €100 and €7,700.
The Draft Data Protection Law, although still not as strict as the GDPR, foresees fines which are significantly higher than the ones foreseen by the Current Data Protection Law. Specifically, the Draft Data Protection Law introduces fines in the amount of up to BAM 200,000 (approx. EUR 100,000) or 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher).
Breach of personal data protection regulations represents a criminal offense of unauthorized collection of personal data by all criminal codes applicable in BiH (Criminal Code of BiH, Criminal Code of the Republic of Srpska, Criminal Code of the Federation of BiH and Crimes Code of Brčko Distrikt). Prescribed sanctions are monetary fines (in amount to be determined by the court) or imprisonment up to six (6) months (Criminal Code of BiH; Criminal Code of the Federation of BiH; Criminal Code of the Brčko Distrikt) or up to one (1) year (Criminal Code of the Republic of Srpska).Last modified 12 Jan 2021
				
			