Traffic Data 
Traffic Data is regulated in Article 11.5 of the Tw. Traffic Data held by a public electronic communications services provider (CSP) must be erased or anonymized when it is no longer necessary for the purpose of the transmission of a communication. However, Traffic Data can be retained if:

It is being used to provide a value added service, and
Consent has been given for the retention of the Traffic Data.

Traffic Data can only be processed by a CSP for:

The management of billing or traffic
Dealing with customer enquiries
The prevention of fraud
The provision of a value added service (subject to consent)
Market research (subject to consent)

Location Data 
(Traffic Data not included) – Location Data is regulated in Article 11.5a of the Tw. Location Data may only be processed:

If such data is being processed in anonymous form; or
With informed consent of the individual.

Cookie Compliance 
The Netherlands implemented the E-Privacy Directive through the Dutch Telecommunications Act in Article 11.7a. The Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM) is entrusted with the enforcement of Article 11.7a of the Tw. In addition, in relation to cookie compliance all privacy requirements from the GDPR must be taken into account. The Dutch Data Protection Authority (Autoriteit Persoonsgegevens) has been appointed by law as the supervisory data protection authority and supervises compliance with the GDPR and the Dutch GDPR Implementation Act.
The main rule is that the website operator needs to obtain prior consent from a user before using cookies (opt-in) and needs to clearly and unambiguously inform the user about these cookies (purpose, type of cookie, etc.). Please note that the website operator is not entitled to refuse users access to its website(s) if no consent is given. The requirement to obtain prior consent from a user does not apply in case of functional cookies (e.g. to enable web shopping carts or language choices) and analytical cookies that have little or no impact on the user's privacy (e.g. for testing the effectiveness of certain banners/pages with the aim to improve the website). In such case, the website operator still needs to inform the website visitors about the cookies.&nbsp;
The information collected through cookies are considered personal data, unless the party that places the cookies can prove otherwise.&nbsp;
In case of violation of electronic marketing or online privacy legislation, the ACM can impose fines of up to EUR 900,000 per violation. In some cases, the fine may be even higher and amount to a percentage of the total annual turnover. In case of violation of the GDPR and the Dutch GDPR Implementation Act, the Dutch Data Protection Authority can impose fines up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or EUR 20 million (whichever is higher).Last modified 21 Jan 2022
				
			