Security
The GDPR is not prescriptive about specific technical standards or measures. Rather, the GDPR adopts a proportionate, context-specific approach to security. Article 32 states that controllers and processors shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk of the processing. In so doing, they must take account of the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing. A 'one size fits all' approach is therefore the antithesis of this requirement.
However the GDPR does require controllers and processors to consider the following when assessing what might constitute adequate security:

The pseudonymization and encryption of personal data
The ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems and services
The ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident
A process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures for ensuring the security of the processing

An important security measure in line with the GDPR applicable from 1 January 2021 is that, most online payments must be completed with two-step verification. This is an obligation under the Payment Service Directive 2, the European directive for payments by consumers and businesses.The Netherlands have not implemented any specific regulations on the basis of Articles 24, 25 or 32 of the GDPR. In this respect, the Explanatory Memorandum to the Dutch Implementation Act explains that no general standard will be developed which sets out when an organization has fulfilled its technical and organizational security obligations. However, specific sectoral codes of conduct may be implemented which may contain further concrete standards. For example, in the health sector we see that such security standards already exist (eg, NEN 7510, which applies as an important information security standard in the health sector).