Traffic Data
Traffic data is defined in Norwegian Regulation relating to Electronic Communications Networks and Electronic Communications Services (FOR-2004-02-16-401, Nw: Ekomforskriften) section 7-1 as data which is necessary to transfer communication in an electronic communications network or for billing of such transfer services.
Processing of traffic data held by a Communications Services Provider ('CSP') (Nw: Tilbyder) may only be performed by individuals tasked with invoicing, traffic management, customer enquiries, marketing of electronic communications networks or the prevention or detection of fraud.
Traffic Data held by a CSP must be erased or anonymized when it is no longer necessary for the purpose of the transmission of a communication (Electronic Communications Act (LOV-2003-07-04-83) section 2-7 (Nw: Ekomloven). However, Traffic Data can be retained if it is being used to provide a value added service and consent has been given for the retention of the Traffic Data.
Location Data
Location data may only be processed subject to explicit consent for the provision of a value added service which is not a public telephony service, and the users must be given understandable information on which data is processed and how the data is used. The user shall have the opportunity to withdraw their&nbsp;consent. See Norwegian Regulation relating to Electronic Communications Networks and Electronic Communications Services section 7-2.
Cookie Compliance
The Electronic Communications Act has been changed in accordance with directive 2009/136/EC regarding the use of cookies. According to section 2-7 b, the user must give their consent before cookies or any other form of data is stored in their browser. The users must receive clear and comprehensive information about the use of cookies and the purpose of the storage or access. However, obtaining user consent is not required if the cookie solely has the purpose of transferring communication in an electronic network, or if it is deemed to be necessary for the delivery of a service requested by the user. The decision of the Court Justice of the European Union in case C-673/17 (Planet 49) entails that consent to non-essential cookies no longer can be expressed through browser settings, at least if the cookie entails processing of personal data. The National Communications Authority, the authority responsible for supervising the Electronic Communications Act, recommends adhering to the consent regime of GDPR (i.e. freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous) if a website operator is uncertain of its compliance with regards to consent. &nbsp;Last modified 17 Jan 2022
				
			