Under the PDPA, a data user may not transfer personal data to jurisdictions outside of Malaysia unless that jurisdiction has been specified by the Minister. However, there are exceptions to this restriction, including the following:

The data subject has given his or her consent to the transfer.
The transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the data user.
The data user has taken all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to ensure that the personal data will not be processed in a manner that would contravene the PDPA.
The transfer is necessary to protect the data subject’s vital interests.

In 2017, the Commissioner published a draft Personal Data Protection (Transfer of Personal Data to Places Outside Malaysia) Order 2017 to obtain public feedback on the proposed jurisdictions to which personal data from Malaysia may be transferred. As of December 15, 2020, the Minister has yet to approve the safe harbor jurisdictions. Once approved, a data user may transfer personal data to these safe harbor jurisdictions without having to rely on the data subject's consent or other prescribed exceptions under the PDPA.
Pursuant to PC01/2020, the Commissioner acknowledged that a clear provision and the conditions for transferring personal data to places outside Malaysia are essential to facilitate e-commerce transactions and free trade agreements, and opined that a whitelist appears to curb and set a barrier for data users to transfer personal data to places outside Malaysia. In view of this, the Commissioner is considering restructuring the provision on cross border transfers under the PDPA and removing the whitelist provision.&nbsp;
In addition, the Commissioner also acknowledged that data users with overseas branches may need to exchange information with its branches at some point. The Commissioner is considering issuing a guideline on the mechanism and implementation of cross border data transfer and has sought feedback on the important matters to be considered in the proposed guideline.Last modified 17 Nov 2021
				
			