The Data Privacy Act of 2012 (“Act” or “DPA”) or Republic Act No. 10173, which took effect on 8 September 2012, is the governing law on data privacy matters in the Philippines.
In 2021, the House of Representatives of the Philippines approved and transmitted to the Philippine Senate a bill seeking to amend the DPA. The proposed amendments broadly include:

Defining biometric and genetic data.
Redefining “sensitive personal information” to include biometric and genetic data, and political and labor affiliation.
Clarifying the extraterritorial application of the DPA by specifying clear instances when the processing of personal data of Philippine citizens and/or residents is concerned.
Defining the digital age of consent to process personal information as more than fifteen (15) years, applicable where information society services are provided and offered directly to a child.
Including the performance of a contract as a new criterion of the lawful basis for processing of sensitive personal information.
Allowing Personal Information Controllers (“PIC”) outside of the Philippines to authorize Personal Information Processors (“PIP”) or any other third party in the country, in writing, to report data breaches to the National Privacy Commission (“NPC”) on behalf of the PIC.
Modifying criminal penalties under the DPA, giving the proper courts the option to impose either imprisonment or fine upon its sound judgment.

The said bill remains pending before the Philippine Senate.
There is another bill pending before the Philippine Senate likewise seeking to amend the DPA. Specifically, the bill seeks to exclude the applicability of the DPA to personal information and sensitive personal information that are necessary to address a health crisis during a period of a declared national emergency or pandemic.
Given the rigorous process of passing a law in the Philippines, and particularly considering the upcoming national elections in May 2022, there are no indications that either of these pending bills will be passed into law within the next 12 months.Last modified 17 Dec 2021
				
			