Enforcement of the GDPR is the prerogative of data protection regulators, known as supervisory authorities (for example, the Cnil in France or the ICO in the UK). The European Data Protection Board (the replacement for the so-called Article 29 Working Party) is comprised of delegates from the supervisory authorities, and monitors the application of the GDPR across the EU, issuing guidelines to encourage consistent interpretation of the Regulation.
The GDPR creates the concept of "lead supervisory authority". Where there is cross-border processing of personal data (i.e. processing taking place in establishments of a controller or processor in multiple Member States, or taking place in a single establishment of a controller or processor but affecting data subjects in multiple Member States), then the starting point for enforcement is that controllers and processors are regulated by and answer to the supervisory authority for their main or single establishment, the so-called "lead supervisory authority" (Article 56(1)).
However, the lead supervisory authority is required to cooperate with all other "concerned" authorities, and a supervisory authority in another Member State may enforce where infringements occur on its territory or substantially affect data subjects only in its territory (Article 56(2)).
The concept of lead supervisory authority is therefore of somewhat limited help to multinationals.The Privacy Code provides that the supervisory authority in Italy is the Garante per la protezione dei dati personali (the "Garante"). The Garante is composed of a Council and an Office. The Council is made up of four members, two elected by the Chamber of Deputies and two by the Senate of the Republic. The members are elected amongst those who apply for this position in a selection procedure whose details are published on the websites of the Chamber of the Deputies, the Senate of the Republic and the Garante. The members elect a Chairman, in the event of parity of votes. The Office is made up of 162 members that are recruited by way of a public competition.