The GDPR and the Privacy Code apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (e.g. an email address which includes the recipient's name). As further analyzed below, under Section 130 of the Privacy Code, the legal basis for electronic marketing is consent.&nbsp;The strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and&nbsp;not&nbsp;merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
The Privacy Code (Section 130) does not prohibit the use of personal data for the purpose of electronic marketing, but it requires the prior informed consent (opt-in) from the recipient of the communication. The use of automated calling or communications systems without human intervention for the purposes of direct marketing or for sending advertising materials, or else for carrying out market surveys or interactive business communication, as well as electronic communications performed by e-mail, facsimile, MMS or SMS-type messages or other means&nbsp;shall only be allowed with the contracting party’s or user’s consent. Such consent shall be recorded with reference to its date and the person giving it in order to be used as evidence of the consent.
Separate consents shall be required for the registration to a website and the opt-in to the delivery of marketing communications, however the data subjects may be required to provide a unique marketing consent covering the different marketing practices (e.g. marketing via SMS, email, telephone, market surveys, etc.) performed through the collected data, provided that such practices are outlined in the information notice provided to data subjects.
An additional separate consent shall be required for the transfer of collected personal data to third parties for marketing purposes. Said third party shall also be identified at least on the basis of its category of operation and provide an information notice to data subjects before the delivery of marketing communications.
Where a data controller uses, for direct marketing of his own products or services, electronic contact details for electronic mail supplied by a data subject in the context of the sale of a product or service, said data controller may fail to request the data subject’s consent, on condition that the services are similar to those that have been the subject of the sale and the data subject, after being adequately informed, does not object to said use either initially or in connection with subsequent communications. The data subject shall be informed of the possibility to object to the processing at any time, using simple means and free of charge, both at the time of collecting the data and when sending any communications for the purposes here referred.
Electronic marketing communications shall clearly identify the sender and provide to the recipient all necessary information in order for him/her to eventually refuse the delivery of the direct marketing material (opt-out).
The possibility for the recipient to opt-out from marketing communication services must be guaranteed both during the first contact with the recipient and during any following communications.
Marketing communications by way of non-automated telephone calls are permitted provided that either:

the data subject has given his prior consent, or&nbsp;
the number of the data subject is included in the telephone directory and (s)he has not entered in a public opt-out register ("Registro delle Opposizioni") and opted out from being contacted for marketing purposes.

Law 11 January 2018, no. 5 provides stringent rules on telemarketing, including, amongst others, the withdrawal from all consents previously given in case of enrolment in the&nbsp;Registro delle Opposizioni, save for consents provided based on contractual arrangements in place or expired less than 30 days before the enrolment, and the prohibition to communicate, transfer or disseminate personal data related to data subjects registered in the&nbsp;Registro delle Opposizioni&nbsp;for advertising or sales purposes or for the purposes of carrying out market research or commercial communications not related to the activities, products or services offered by the data controller.
The above mentioned privacy provisions apply also to communications sent through private messages on social networks and through Voip. On the contrary, should the data subject be a follower of a social network page, it may be implied that the data subject has consented to the delivery of marketing communications of the page. Marketing messages concerning a given brand, product or service as sent by the company managing the relevant social network page may be considered to be lawful if it can be inferred unambiguously from the context or the operational arrangements of the relevant social network, also based on the information provided, that the recipient did intend in this manner to also signify his/her intention to consent to receiving marketing messages from the given company. However the delivery of marketing communications shall stop when the data subject unregisters from the page.
The Privacy Code provisions relating to marketing and commercial communications make reference to the ‘contracting party’s and user’s consent’ rather than to the ‘data subject’s consent’, referring both to individuals and companies.Last modified 14 Jan 2020
				
			