Security
The GDPR is not prescriptive about specific technical standards or measures. Rather, the GDPR adopts a proportionate, context-specific approach to security. Article 32 states that controllers and processors shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk of the processing. In so doing, they must take account of the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing. A 'one size fits all' approach is therefore the antithesis of this requirement.
However the GDPR does require controllers and processors to consider the following when assessing what might constitute adequate security:

the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data;
the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems and services;
the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident; and
a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing.
The Privacy Code does not prescript further security measures that should be followed to protect personal data.
Nevertheless, genetic data, biometric data or data concerning health must be processed in accordance with the additional safeguard measures issued by the Garante every two years (Article 2-septies). Such safeguard measures take into account the guidelines, recommendations and best practices published by the European Data Protection Board and best practices on personal data processing; scientific and technological evolution in the sector covered by such measures; and the interest of the free flow of personal data within the territory of the Union. Also, the Garante may issue codes of ethics that set out security measures for the processing of personal for statistical and scientific research purposes.