While Cambodian law does not explicitly prohibit an organization from transferring data, it implies a disclosure/notification obligation under its existing legal framework for data protection. Personal data can only be collected, used, or disclosed for purposes that the individual understands and has given consent to at the time of giving initial consent or a new consent. Such purposes must be disclosed or notified to data subjects in a reasonable manner based on the circumstances.
Where the use and disclosure of the personal data is for a purpose different from that for which it was initially collected, it is necessary to notify the individual of the new purpose and obtain a new consent unless:

the new purpose is within the scope of the original consent, or
implied consent can be established.

Implied consent refers to any act that is generally recognized as consent under applicable trade practices. However, it is recommended that a new consent that is express and written be obtained once service providers use or disclose personal data for a purpose different from that for which it was collected.
When a service provider is seeking consent from the data subject, the service provider must disclose or notify the data subjects of the purpose(s) for which it intends to collect, use or disclose the data subjects’ personal data before such collection, use or disclosure of the personal data. Cambodia’s laws related to data protection do not prescribe how an organization should notify individuals. Organizations must determine what would be the most appropriate form of notification. The form of the disclosure/notification to obtain each data subject’s consent should be as close to a formal contract as possible. Moreover, requirements such as clicking on the consent button, typing a full legal name for the signature, and/or scrolling through all terms of the disclosure/notification should be implemented. Furthermore, disclosures/notifications to the individuals regarding the purpose of the collection, use, and disclosure of personal data must not be too vague or broad in scope; an appropriate level of specificity should be provided.
Therefore, where the organization will be disclosing or transferring personal data to third parties, the organization should notify the individuals of such disclosure or transfer. Any consent provided by the individual without first being disclosed or notified of the purposes would not be valid.Last modified 17 Dec 2021
				
			