Fundamental provisions of data protection law in Russia can be found in the Russian Constitution, international treaties and specific laws. Russia is a member of the Strasbourg Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data (Convention) (ratified by Russia in 2006) and the Russian Constitution establishes the right to privacy of each individual (articles. 23 and 24). Most rules are found in specific legislation, particularly the Data Protection Act No. 152 FZ dated 27 July 2006 (DPA) and various regulatory acts adopted to implement the DPA as well as other laws, including the Information, Information Technologies and Information Protection Act No. 149 FZ dated 27 July 2006 establishing basic rules as to the information in general and its protection. In addition, the Russian Labour Code contains provisions on the protection of employees’ personal data (Part XIV). Other laws may also contain data protection provisions which implement the provisions of DPA in relation to specific areas of state services or industries.
On 22 July 2014 notable amendments to the DPA were adopted and came into force on 1 September 2015. The amendments require all personal data operators to store and process any personal data of Russian individuals within databases located in Russia (subject to few exceptions). The penalty for violation of this requirement is ultimately the blocking of websites involving unlawful handling of Russian personal data. A Register of Infringers of Rights of Personal Data Subjects shall be established by the Roscomnadzor and from there and the Roscomnadzor may move to block websites.
As the amendments are newly passed and a track record of enforcement and legal interpretation has not been established, it is still unclear as to how this register and the website blocking would work in practice. According to clarifications of Russian regulators, storing and processing of personal data of Russian individuals outside of Russia can still be compliant with the law as long as primary (often interpreted as initial) storage and processing of data is done in Russia. It is still an open question whether keeping "mirror" databases in Russia and elsewhere would be deemed as compliant.Last modified 15 Jan 2021
				
			