The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A Regulation (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.The relevant law is the Data Protection Act 2018 (Act) (Chapter 586 of the Laws of Malta) and the Regulations (at present 8 in number) issued under it. The Act repealed and replaced the previous Data Protection Act (Chapter 440 of the Laws of Malta).
In 2020, Subsidiary Legislation 586.10 (‘Processing Of Data Concerning Health for Insurance Purposes Regulations’) was significantly amended. Pursuant to Article 9 of the GDPR, it was made explicit that processing of data concerning health shall be deemed to&nbsp;be&nbsp; in&nbsp; the&nbsp; substantial&nbsp; public&nbsp; interest&nbsp; when&nbsp; such processing is necessary for the purpose of the business of insurance or insurance distribution activities. However, this is made subject to suitable and specific measures designed to safeguard the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects.&nbsp;
The main legislative amendments that came into effect in 2021 were those to Subsidiary Legislation 586.07 (Processing of Personal Data (Education Sector) Regulations). The main purpose of these amendments was to bring the terminology used in these regulations in line with the wording of the GDPR rather than the previous local law. The full text, in English, is available here.
In 2021, certain procedural amendments were also made to the Act. The amending act (having the aim of providing for the amendment of various laws for the purpose of reforming the procedure for the making of various appointments) can be read here.
See all&nbsp;Maltese Legislation here.