In Panama, personal information is protected at the constitutional level. The Constitution provides that every person has a right of access to his / her personal information contained in data banks or public or private registries and to request their correction and protection, as well as their deletion in accordance with the provisions of the law. It also states that such information may only be collected for specific purposes, subject to the consent of the person in question, or by order of a competent authority based on the provisions of the law. The disclosure of personal information without consent is also prohibited by the Panamanian Criminal Code. Criminal penalties apply to the disclosure of personal information where the disclosure causes harm to the affected individual.&nbsp;
As per the Data Protection Law, the data subject must consent to the processing of his data and be duly informed of the proposed use of his personal data. The consent must be obtained in such a way that allows its traceability with documentation, whether electronic or by any other means that are suitable to the medium of the particular case and can be revoked, without retroactive effect. If the consent of the data subject is given in the context of a sworn statement that also refers to other matters, the consent request will be presented in such a way that it is clearly distinguished from the others, in a comprehensible and easily accessible manner, using a clear and simple language, which will not be binding in any part of the declaration that constitutes an infraction of the Law and its regulation. Under the Data Protection Law, data subjects need to know how collected personal data will be used.&nbsp;&nbsp;
The Data Protection Law established the following acceptable grounds to justify processing personal data without a person's consent:

Those that come or are collected from public domain sources or accessible in public media.
Those that are collected within the exercise of the functions of the Public Administration in the field of their competences.
Those of an economic, financial, banking or commercial nature that have prior consent.
Those that are contained in lists related to a category of people that is limited to identifying background, such as the participation of a natural person to an organization, their profession or activity, their educational titles, address or date of birth.
Those that are necessary within an established commercial relationship, whether for direct attention, marketing or sale of goods or services agreed.
The processing of personal data by private organizations for the exclusive use of their associates and the entities to which they are affiliated, for statistical purposes, for pricing or others of general benefit to them.
Cases of medical or health emergencies.
The treatment of information authorized by law for historical, statistical or scientific purposes.
The treatment that is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that such interests do not prevail over the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested party is a minor or a person with a disability.
Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			