With regards to personal data, the Constitution states that individuals must give their consent in order for their personal data to be transferred or processed in any way.&nbsp;
The Data Protection Law clearly states that in no case may the data controller or the data processor transfer or communicate the data related to an identified or identifiable person, after seven years have elapsed since the legal obligation of kept said personal data, unless the data subject expressly requests otherwise. Data controllers can only transfer personal data when they have the prior, informed and unequivocal consent of the data subject, with the exceptions included in the Data Protection Law.&nbsp;
Additionally, the Data Protection Law states that the transfer of personal data is understood to be lawful, if any of the following conditions are met:&nbsp;

To have the data subject’s consent.
That the recipient country or international or supranational organization provides an equivalent or a higher level of protection.
That it is included in a law or treaty in which the Republic of Panama is a party.
That it is necessary for the prevention or medical diagnosis, the provision of health care, medical treatment or the management of health services.
That it be made to any company of the same economic group of the data controller, provided that the personal data is not used for different purposes that originated their collection.
That it is necessary under an executed or soon to be executed contract in unambiguous interest of the data subject, by the controller and a third party.
That it is necessary or legally required for the safeguard of a public interest or for the legal representation of the data subject or administration of justice.
That is necessary for the recognition, exercise or defense of a right in a judicial process, or in cases of international judicial collaboration.
That is necessary for the maintenance or fulfilment of a legal relationship between the data controller and the data subject.
That is required to conclude bank or stock transfers, relative to the respective transactions and according to the legislation that is applicable to them.
That has as its object, international cooperation among intelligence agencies for the fight against organized crime, terrorism, money laundering, computer crimes, child pornography and drug trafficking.
That the data controller responsible for the data transfer and the recipient adopt mechanisms of binding self-regulation, provided that they are in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Law.
That is carried out within the framework of contractual clauses that contain mechanisms for protection of personal data in accordance with the provisions set out in the Data Protection Law, provided that the data subject is a party.&nbsp;

In all cases, the data controller responsible for the data transfer and the recipient of the personal data will be responsible for the legality of the data processing.Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			