Traffic Data
For the purposes of the investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, and solely with a view to enabling information to be made available, in so far as may be necessary, to the judicial authorities, any service provider or operator processing traffic data must retain such data for a period of six months. This obligation includes data related to the missed phone calls wherever these data are generated, stored or recorded. Beyond this period, the service provider or operator must erase such data unless made anonymous.
Traffic data may be processed for the purposes of marketing electronic communications services or providing value added services, to the extent and for the duration necessary for such supply or marketing of such services, provided that the provider of an electronic communications service or the operator has informed the subscriber or user concerned in advance of the types of traffic data processed and of the purpose and duration of the processing, and provided that the subscriber or user has given his or her consent, notwithstanding his or her right to object to such processing at any time.
Location Data other than Traffic Data
Service providers or operators have also the obligation to retain location data other than traffic data for a period of six months for the purposes of the investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. This obligation includes data related to missed phone calls wherever these data are generated, stored or recorded. Beyond this period, the service provider or operator must erase such data unless made anonymous.
Service providers or operators may process location data other than traffic data relating to subscribers and users only if such data have been made anonymous or the subscriber or user concerned has given his or her consent, to the extent and for the duration necessary for the supply of a value added service.
Service providers and, where appropriate, operators shall inform subscribers or users in advance of the types of location data other than traffic data processed, of the purposes and duration of the processing and whether the data will be transmitted to third parties for the purpose of providing the value added service. Subscribers or users shall be given the possibility to withdraw their consent to the processing of location data other than traffic data at any time.
Where subscriber or user consent has been obtained for the processing of location data other than traffic data, the subscriber or user must continue to have the possibility, using a simple means free of charge, to temporarily refuse the processing of such data for each connection to the network or for each transmission of a communication.
Cookies
Prior informed consent of a subscriber or user is required. The method of providing information and the right to refuse should be as user friendly as possible and, where it is technically possible and effective, the users consent may be expressed by appropriate browser or application settings.The CNPD published official guidelines on cookies in October 2021.