Law 1581 created the National Register of Data Bases (NRDB). Databases that store personal data and whose automated or manual processing is carried out by a natural or legal person, whether public or private in nature, in the Colombian territory or abroad, shall be registered in the NRDB. Database registration is also required if Colombian law applies to the data controller or data processor under an International Law or Treaty. Registration is mandatory for data controllers that are either of the following:

Companies or nonprofit entities that have total assets valued above 100,000 Tax Value Units (TVU), meaning COP 3.800.400.000 million (USD 950.100)[1]
Legal persons of public nature

Decree 866 states that each data controller shall register each one of its databases, independently and must distinguish between manual and automatized databases. In addition, in order to register each database, the data controller or data processor shall provide the following information:&nbsp;

Identification information of the data controller, such as: business name, tax identification number, location and contact information
Identification details of the data processor, such as: business name, tax identification number, location and contact information
Contact channels to grant data subjects rights
Name and purpose of the database
Form of processing (manual / automatized)
Security standards
Privacy policy

All data bases were required to register by January 31, 2019. Any new data base(s) shall be registered within the 2 months following its creation.
Any substantial change to any of the abovementioned items, shall be updated in the National Registry of Data Bases. For this purpose, substantial changes are considered as any changes that are made in regards to the purposes of the databases, the data processors, the channels to process any claim or request from the data subject, the class or type of personal data, the security measures implemented, the data privacy policy and/or the international transfer or transmission of personal data.
Such updates shall be made:
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;i. Within the 10 first days of the month in which the substantial change was made,
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;and
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;ii. Yearly (between January 2 and March 31 of each year).
Moreover, through the National Register of Data Bases, data controllers shall inform of the following:

Any claim submitted by a data subject to the data controller and/or data processor, within each semester of the year. This information shall be registered within the first 15 business days of February and August of each year with the information of the previous semester.
Any breaches of registered data bases. Such report shall be submitted within the 15 business days following the day on which the data controller had knowledge of the data breach.
FootnotesFootnote 1: Based on the Tax Value Unit for 2022 (COP $38.004 (approximately USD 9.5)). The Tax Value Unit is updated yearly by the Colombian tax authority.