Based on Article 14 (2) of Reg. 71, processing of personal data includes:

obtainment and collection;
processing and analyzing;
storing;
correction and updates;
displaying, announcing, transferring, distributing or disclosure; and/or
deletion or removal.

As the general rule to process personal data, EIT Law, Reg. 71 and the MOCI Reg. 20/2016 specifically regulate the obligation to obtain “consent” (as defined below) from the owner of the personal data. Furthermore, Article 7 paragraph (1) of MOCI Reg. 20/2016 regulates that in obtaining and collecting personal data the Electronic System Provider must also be limited to the relevant and suitable information in accordance to its purpose and must be conducted accurately. Article 12 paragraph (1) of MOCI Reg. 20/2016 also regulates that personal data can only be processed and analyzed in accordance with the needs of the Electronic System Provider that have been stated clearly at the time the personal data is obtained and collected.
Article 14 paragraph (1) of Reg. 71 explains that Electronic System Provider shall also implement the principles of personal data protection in the processing of personal data which includes:

personal data collection is conducted in a limited and specific manner, legally valid, fairly, with the knowledge and approval of the personal data owner;
personal data processing is conducted in accordance with its purpose;
personal data processing is conducted by securing the rights of the personal data owner;
personal data processing is conducted accurately, completely, not misleading, up to date, can be accounted for, and by taking into account to the purpose of processing of the personal data;
personal data processing is conducted by protecting the security of personal data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access and disclosure, as well as the alteration or destruction of personal data;
personal data processing is conducted by notifying the purpose of collection, processing activities, and failure of personal data protection; and
personal data processing is destroyed and/or deleted except if it is still in the retention period in accordance with the necessity based on the laws and regulations.

Article 32 of MOCI Reg. 5/2020 explains that Private Scope Electronic System Providers shall grant access towards Electronic Data to law enforcement apparatus for investigation, prosecution, or trial of criminal acts within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Indonesia. Such criminal acts are criminal actions with the threat of imprisonment of a minimum of 2 (two) years. In the event the Electronic System Provider does not comply to grant access to Electronic Data to law enforcement apparatus as mentioned in this paragraph based on Article 45 paragraph (4) of MOCI Reg. 5/2020, the Minister of Communication and Informatics shall impose administrative sanctions to Electronic System Providers in the Private Scope in the form of: (i) written warning; (ii) temporary suspension; (iii) termination of access; and/or (iv) revocation of Electronic System Provider Registration Certificate.Last modified 17 Dec 2021
				
			