In Indonesia, the sanctions for breaches of data privacy are found under the relevant legislation and are essentially fines. Imprisonment may be imposed in severe instances, such as in the event of intentional infringement.
The EIT Law and EIT Law Amendment provide criminal penalties ranging from:

IDR 600 million fine to IDR 800 million and 6 to 8 years of imprisonment for unlawful access;
IDR 800 million fine and/or 10 years of imprisonment for unlawful interception or wiretapping of a transmission; and/or
IDR 2 billion to IDR 5 billion and/or 8 to 10 years of imprisonment for alteration, addition, reduction, transmission, tampering, deletion, moving or hiding electronic information or electronic records.

Failure to comply with Reg. 71 is subject to administrative sanctions (which do not eliminate any civil and criminal liability). These administration sanctions are in the form of:

written warning;
administrative fines;
temporary dismissal;
termination of access; and/or
expulsion from the list of registrations (as required under the regulation).

Failure to comply with MOCI Reg. 20/2016 is subject to administrative sanctions in the form of:

verbal warning;
written warning;
temporary dismissal of activities; and/or
an announcement in the online website.

Banking Law
Under Article 47 of the Banking Law, any commissioner, director or employee of a bank or its affiliates who intentionally provides information which has to be kept secret may be sentenced to imprisonment for not less than 2 years but not more than 4 years, and fined at least IDR 4 billion but not more than IDR 8 billion.
Capital Markets Law
Under Capital Markets Law, the FSA is empowered to impose the following administrative sanctions for breaches of the provisions dealing with data protection). The sanctions include:

A written reminder;
A fine;
Limitations on business;
Suspension of business;
Revocation of business license;
Cancellation of approval; and/ or
Cancellation of registration.
Last modified 17 Dec 2021
				
			