Pursuant to Article 2 paragraph (2) of Reg. 71, an “Electronic System Provider” is either a:

Public Scope Electronic System Provider; or
Private Scope Electronic System Provider.

Further, Article 2 paragraph (3) of Reg. 71 states that “Public Scope Electronic System Provider” includes:

the Agency[1]; and
an institution appointed by the Agency.

The term Public Scope Electronic System Provider does not include any regulatory or supervisory authority in the financial sector. According to Article 2 paragraph (2) of MOCI Reg. 5/2020, the term “Private Scope Electronic System Provider” includes:

an Electronic System Provider that is regulated or supervised by a Ministry or Agency based on statutory provisions; and/or
an Electronic System Provider that has a portal, site, or application in the network through the internet that is used for:

providing, managing, and/or operating the offering and/or trading of goods and/or services;
providing, managing, and/or operating financial transaction services;
delivering paid digital material or content through data network either by downloading through a portal or website, delivery through electronic mail, or through other applications to the device of the electronic system user;
providing, managing, and/or operating communication services, including but not limited to short messages, voice calls, video calls, electronic mail, and network conversations in the form of digital platforms, networking services and social media;
search engine services, services for providing electronic information in the form of text, sound, image, animation, music, video, film and game or a combination of part and/or all of them; and/or
processing personal data for public service operational activities related to electronic transaction activities.



Article 6 of Reg. 71 regulates that Public Scope Electronic System Providers and Private Scope Electronic System Providers are obliged to conduct registration. The registration shall be submitted through electronically integrated business licensing services in accordance with the statutory provisions and it must be done before the electronic system is used by the electronic system user.
Article 2 paragraphs (1) and (3) of MOCI Reg. 5/2020 provide that all Private Electronic System Providers must conduct registration and that this registration must be conducted before the electronic system is used by the electronic system user. Article 4 paragraph (1) of MOCI Reg. 5/2020 further extends this obligation to Private Electronic System Providers who are established under foreign laws or who are permanently domiciled in another country but:

provides services in the territory of Indonesia;
conducts business in Indonesia; and/or
the electronic system is used and/or offered in the territory of Indonesia.

Furthermore, Article 4 of Minister of Communications and Informatics Regulation No. 4 of 2016 regarding Management System of Information Protection (“MOCI Reg. 4/2016”) provides that there are 3 (three) categories of electronic systems such as: (i) strategic electronic system, which is an electronic system that causes serious impact to the public interest, public services, state governance stability, or state defense and security; (ii) high electronic system, which is an electronic system that causes limited impact to the interest of certain sector and/or territory; and (iii) low electronic system, which is any other electronic system aside from strategic and high electronic systems.
Article 10 of MOCI Reg. 4/2016 provides that strategic and high electronic system providers (for public services) must obtain a Certificate of Management System of Information Protection, while low electronic system providers (for public services) may obtain Certificate of Management System of Information Protection.Footnotes[1] Being defined as a legislative, executive and judicative agencies at the central and regional level and other agencies that are formed by the laws.