Article 26 paragraph (2) of Reg. 71 provides that in the implementation of the electronic system which is directed to electronic information and/or electronic document that can be transferred (such as securities (valuable paper) and securities in electronic form), such electronic information and/or electronic document must be unique and explain the possession and ownership.
The elucidation of Article 26 paragraph (2) of Reg. 71 further explains the above provision, as follows:

“Electronic information and/or electronic document must be unique” means it is the only one that represents a certain value.
“Electronic information and/or electronic document must explain the possession” means the electronic system has control system or recording system over such electronic information and/or electronic document.
“Electronic information and/or electronic document must explain the ownership” means the electronic system has technology control measures that guarantee that there is only one single authoritative copy and cannot be amended.

Article 21 (1) of MOCI Regulation states that displaying, announcing, transferring, broadcasting, and/or opening personal data access in the electronic system can only be conducted:

by consent (being defined as a written agreement either manually and/or electronically being given by the owner of personal data after obtaining a full explanation regarding the process for acquiring, collecting, processing, analyzing, storing, displaying, announcing, disseminating, storing, dis-playing, announcing, sending, and disseminating including the confidentiality or non-confidentiality of the personal data), except stipulated otherwise by laws and regulations; and
after its accuracy and suitability with the purpose of obtaining and collecting such personal data is verified.

Article 22 paragraph (1) of the MOCI Reg. 20/2016 states that transferring personal data that is managed by an electronic system provider at the government and regional government institution including the public or private sector domiciled in the territory of Indonesia to parties outside the territory of Indonesia must:

coordinate with the Minister of Communication and Informatics or the official or institution being authorized for such purpose; and implement the laws and regulations regarding the transboundary exchange of personal data.

Article 22 paragraph (2) of the MOCI Reg. 20/2016 further explains that the implementation of the coordination as stipulated in Article 22 paragraph (1) point (a) of MOCI Reg. 20/2016 being:


to report the implementation plan of personal data transfer, at least containing the clear name of the designated country, recipient subject name, implementation date, and reason / purpose of the transfer;


to request for advocacy, if needed; and


to report the activities implementation result.

Last modified 17 Dec 2021
				
			