Personal data&nbsp;is defined as "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person." A low bar is set for identifiable – if the natural person can be identified using “all means reasonably likely to be used” the information is personal data. A name is not necessary either – any identifier will do, such as an identification number, phone number, location data or other factors which may identify that natural person.
Online identifiers are expressly called out in Recital 30, with IP addresses, cookies and RFID tags all listed as examples.
The GDPR creates more restrictive rules for the processing of special categories&nbsp;of personal data (including data relating to race, religion, sexual life, data pertaining to health, genetics and biometrics) and personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences.
The GDPR is concerned with the processing&nbsp;of personal data. Processing has an extremely wide meaning, and includes any set of operations performed on data, including the mere storage, hosting, consultation or deletion of the data.
Personal data may be processed by either a&nbsp;controller&nbsp;or a processor. The controller is the decision maker, the person who "alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data." The processor "processes personal data on behalf of the controller," acting on the instructions of the controller. In contrast to the previous law, the GDPR imposes direct obligations on both the controller and the processor, although fewer obligations are imposed on the processor.
The data subject&nbsp;is a living, natural person whose personal data are processed by either a controller or a processor.Law no. 190/2018&nbsp;does not provide any specific definitions with respect to personal data, as this term is already defined by the GDPR. However, the following relevant definitions are included:

"Public authorities and bodies" means the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, the Presidential Administration, the Government, the ministries, other specialized bodies of the central public administration, autonomous public authorities and institutions, local and county public administration authorities, other public authorities, as well as any institutions subordinated / coordinated by such authorities. Religious establishments, organisations and foundations of public service are considered public authorities / bodies.
"National identification number" means the number by which an individual is identified in certain record systems and which has general applicability, such as: (i) personal identification number, (ii) serial number and identity card number, (iii) passport number, (iv) driving license, and (v) social health insurance number.
"Remediation plan" means an annex to the report for finding and sanctioning misdemeanours, drafted by the National Supervisory Authority for Personal Data Processing (hereinafter referred to as ANSPDCP) setting remediation measures and terms.
"Remediation measure" means a solution imposed by ANSPDCP in the remediation plan, in view of ensuring the compliance of the public authority/body with the obligations provided by the law.
"Remediation term" means a time period of maximum 90 days calculated from the moment when the report for finding and sanctioning misdemeanours is communicated, in which the public authority/body may undertake remedial actions in order to correct any irregularities assessed by ANSPDCP and comply with its legal obligations.

All definitions included by the GDPR in Article 4 are applicable and have the same meaning as&nbsp;in Law no. 190/2018.