Fines
The GDPR empowers supervisory authorities to impose fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or €20 million (whichever is higher).
The European Commission intends that fines should, where appropriate, be imposed by reference to the revenue of an economic undertaking rather than the revenues of the relevant controller or processor. Recital 150 of the GDPR states that undertaking should be understood in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements between undertakings and abuse of a dominant position. Unhelpfully, the Treaty does not define undertaking and the case law is not entirely straightforward, with decisions often turning on the specific facts of each case. However, in many competition cases, group companies have been regarded as part of the same undertaking. The assessment will turn on the facts of each case, and the first test cases under the GDPR will need to be scrutinized carefully to understand the interpretation of undertaking. Under EU competition law case law, there is also precedent for regulators to impose joint and several liability on parent companies for fines imposed on subsidiaries in some circumstances (broadly where there is participation or control), under a theory so-called look through liability. Again, it remains to be seen whether there will be a direct read-across of this principle into GDPR enforcement.
Fines are split into two broad categories. The highest fines of up to €20 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is higher, apply to infringement of any of the following:

The basic principles for processing including conditions for consent
Data subjects’ rights
International transfer restrictions
Any obligations imposed by Member State law for special cases&nbsp;such as processing employee data
Certain orders of a supervisory authority

The lower category of fines of up to €10 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 2% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is the higher, apply to infringement of any of the following:

Obligations of controllers and processors, including security and data breach notification obligations
Obligations of certification bodies
Obligations of a monitoring body

Supervisory authorities are not required to impose fines, but must ensure in each case that the sanctions imposed are effective, proportionate and dissuasive.&nbsp;
Fines can be imposed in combination with other sanctions.
Investigative and corrective powers
Supervisory authorities also enjoy wide investigative and corrective powers including the power to undertake on-site data protection audits and the power to issue public warnings, reprimands and orders to carry out specific remediation activities.
Right to claim compensation
The GDPR makes specific provision for individuals to bring private claims against controllers and processors:

Any person who has suffered material or non-material damage as a result of a breach of the GDPR has the right to receive compensation&nbsp; from the controller or processor. The inclusion of non-material damage means that individuals will be able to claim compensation for distress even where they are not able to prove financial loss.
Data subjects have the right to mandate a consumer protection body to exercise rights and bring claims on their behalf.

Individuals also enjoy the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority.&nbsp;
All natural and legal persons, including individuals, controllers and processors, have the right to an effective judicial remedy against a decision of a supervisory authority concerning them or for failing to make a decision.
Data subjects enjoy the right to an effective legal remedy against a controller or processor.&nbsp;ANSPDCP is entitled to investigate any breach of the GDPR provisions ex officio or following a complaint filed by a prejudiced data subject. The procedure on how ANSPDCP investigations can be conducted is provided by ANSPDCP Decision no. 161/2018.&nbsp;
Law no. 190/2018 provides specific rules with respect to enforcement. Specifically, ANSPDCP may issue written warnings and apply fines.&nbsp;
Misdemeanours committed by public authorities / bodies can be sanctioned with a fine ranging between RON 10,000 (approx. EUR 2,100) to RON 200,000 (approx. EUR 42,000).