The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A regulation (unlike the directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An establishment may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extraterritorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.Law no. 190/2018 on the measures for the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC ("Law no. 190/2018") was published in the Official Gazette no. 651/26.07.2018 and became applicable on July 31, 2018.&nbsp;
Law no. 190/2018 regulates, among others, the following activities, in addition to providing certain derogations and a framework related to the sanctions applicable to public authorities and public bodies:

Processing of genetic data, biometric data or health data
Processing of a national identification number
Processing of personal data in the context of employment relationships
Processing of personal data and of special categories of personal data within the performance of a task carried out in the public interest
