The processing of traffic data, location data and the implementation of cookies is regulated under Law no. 506/2004.
Traffic data
Traffic data relating to subscribers and users processed and stored by the provider of a public electronic communications network or publicly available electronic communications service must be erased or made anonymous when it is no longer needed for the purpose of the transmission of a communication, but no later than three years from the date of such a communication.
However, traffic data may be retained for the purpose of marketing the services offered to data subjects, or in view of the provision of value-added services, solely throughout the marketing period and provided that data subjects have previously consented to the processing of traffic data. Data subjects may withdraw such consent at any time. The provider of publicly available electronic communication services must inform data subjects in respect of the processed categories of traffic data, and the duration of processing, prior to obtaining their consent.
The processing of traffic data for billing purposes or the establishment of payment obligations for interconnection is permitted solely for a period of three years following the due date of the respective payment obligation. The provider of publicly available electronic communication services must inform data subjects in respect of the processed categories of traffic data and the duration of processing.
The processing of traffic data for the establishment of contractual obligations of the communication services subscribers, with payment in advance, is permitted solely for a period of three years following the date of the communication.&nbsp;
The processing of traffic data as mentioned above may be done only by persons acting under the authority of providers of public electronic communications networks or of publicly available electronic communications services for:

Management of billing and traffic
Dealing with enquiries of data subjects
Prevention of fraud, or
The provision of communication services or value added services,

and it is permitted only if it is necessary to fulfil such purpose.
Location data, other than traffic data
The processing of location data, other than traffic data is permitted when:

Data is rendered anonymous
Data subjects have explicitly and consented prior to such processing for the duration necessary for the performance of value added services, or
The purpose of the value-added service is the unidirectional and nondifferentiated transmission of information towards users.

The &nbsp;provider of publicly available electronic communications services must inform the users or subscribers, prior to obtaining their consent, in respect of the type of location data which will be processed, of the purposes and duration of the processing and whether the data will be transmitted to a third party for the purpose of providing the value added service. Users or subscribers shall be given the possibility to withdraw their consent at any time. Where consent of the users or subscribers has been obtained for the processing of location data other than traffic data, the&nbsp; provider of publicly available electronic communications services must grant users the possibility, using a simple &nbsp;and free of charge means, of withdrawing consent or of temporarily refusing the processing of such data for each connection to the network or for each transmission of a communication.
Cookies
The storing of cookies on user terminals is permitted, subject to the following cumulative conditions:

Subscribers or users have expressly consented thereto (Law no. 506/2004 also provides that consent may be given by way of browser settings or other similar technologies)
The information requirements provided by Data Protection Law have been complied with in a clear and user-friendly manner, to include references regarding the purpose of processing of the information stored by users.

Should the service provider allow the storing of third-party cookies within a user's computer terminal, the user &nbsp;will have to be informed about the purpose of such processing and the manner in which browser settings may be adjusted in order to refuse third-party cookies.
Consent is not required where cookies are:

Used for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network, or
Strictly necessary for the provision of an information service expressly requested by the subscriber or the user.

Failure to comply with the requirements of Law no. 506/2004 is classified as a minor offence and is sanctionable with fines ranging from approx. EUR 1,000 &nbsp;to EUR 21,000 . In the case of companies whose turnover exceeds approximately EUR 1.05 &nbsp;million, the amount of fines may reach up to 2% of the respective company's turnover.
Upon request of the courts of law, of the criminal prosecution authorities or of the authorities competent in the area of national defence and security with the prior approval of the judge, providers of publicly available electronic communication services and providers of public electronic communications networks &nbsp;shall make available, as soon as possible, but no later than 48 hours, traffic data, data regarding user terminals, as well as geolocation data.Last modified 17 Jan 2022
				
			