Under the current Act, where an organization has reason to believe that a data breach affecting personal data in its possession or under its control has occurred, it must conduct, in a reasonable and expeditious manner, an assessment of whether the data breach is a "notifiable breach" (as defined in the current Act). A data breach constitutes a "notifiable breach" if:

it results in, or is likely to result in, significant harm to the affected individuals (including one that compromises personal data prescribed under the Personal Data Protection (Notification of Data Breaches) Regulations 2021); or
it is of a significant scale (i.e. one that affects 500 or more individuals).

An organization must notify the Commission as soon as practicable and in any case no later than three calendar days after the day the organization makes the above assessment of a notifiable breach. If the data breach results in, or is likely to result in, significant harm to the affected individual(s), an organization must also notify each affected individual in any manner that is reasonable in the circumstances.
The Personal Data Protection (Notification of Data Breaches) Regulations 2021 sets out the list of information to be included in notifications to the Commission and affected individuals.
Where a data breach is discovered by a data intermediary, the data intermediary must notify the organization (i.e. data controller) without undue delay from the time the data intermediary has credible grounds to believe that a data breach has occurred in relation to personal data that it is processing on behalf of and for the purposes of the organization. Upon notification by the data intermediary, the organization must conduct an assessment of whether the data breach is a notifiable data breach.
In addition, the Cybersecurity Act 2018 ("CSA") was passed in Singapore in early 2019. The CSA primarily contains obligations applicable to organizations which have been designated as owners of critical information infrastructure. In particular, if your organization has been designated by the Cybersecurity Commissioner as the owner of a critical information infrastructure, additional obligations will apply to your organization in relation to data breach incident handling and notification.Last modified 21 Dec 2021
				
			