Enforcement of the Act is carried out by the Commission, which include giving directions to do any of the following:

Stop collection, use or disclosure of personal data in contravention of the Act
Destroy personal data collected in contravention of the Act
Provide or refuse access to or correction of personal data
Pay a financial penalty, currently the maximum financial penalty is not exceeding SGD 1 million. However, once the section on increased financial penalty of the Amendment Bill comes into force (no earlier than February 1, 2022), the penalty will be increased to either up to (i) 10% of an organization’s annual turnover in Singapore for those with annual turnover that exceeds SGD 10 million, or (ii) SGD 1 million, whichever is higher.

These directions may be registered with the Singapore District Courts so that they may have the force and effect of an order of court.
The Commission issued revised Advisory Guidelines on Enforcement of Data Protection Provisions on February 1, 2021.
Further, new criminal offences are in force to hold individuals accountable for egregious mishandling of personal data, including knowing or reckless unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized re-identification of anonymized data, or use of personal data for a gain or to cause harm or loss to another person.
Guidelines published by the Commission indicate how in practice the Commission proposes to handle complaints, reviews and investigations of breaches of the data protection rules under the Act, and to approach enforcement and sanctions. Amongst other things, they set out the Commission's enforcement objectives, and guidance regarding the mitigating and aggravating factors that the Commission will take into account when issuing directions and sanctions (for example, prompt initial response and resolution of incidents; cooperation with investigations; and breach notification). The Commission has in the past couple of years stepped up its efforts to enforce the Act, highlighting the growing risks of non-compliance with the Act in Singapore.
Directions or decisions given are subject to reconsideration by the Commission, upon written application by any aggrieved party.
Directions, decisions or reconsiderations of the Commission may also be subject to appeal to a Data Protection Appeal Committee, unless the direction or decision to be appealed is the subject of an application for reconsideration, in which case such appeal would be deemed withdrawn.
Directions may only be appealed to the High Court and Court of Appeal with regard to the following:

A point of law arising from a direction or decision of the Appeal Committee
Any direction of the Appeal Committee as to the amount of a financial penalty

Any person who has suffered loss or damage directly as a result of a contravention of the Act is also entitled to pursue a private action in court. However, where the Commission has made a decision with regard to the said loss or damage, a right of private action will only be possible after the decision has become final as a result of there being no further right of appeal. The court may grant to the plaintiff all or any of the following:

Relief by way of injunction or declaration
Damages
Such other relief as the court thinks fit
Last modified 21 Dec 2021
				
			