Singapore enacted the Personal Data Protection Act of 2012 (No. 26 of 2012) ("Act") on October 15, 2012. A draft Personal Data Protection (Amendment) Bill ("Amendment Bill") was passed in the Singapore Parliament in November 2020.
Certain sections of the Amendment Bill are now in force under the Personal Data Protection (Amendment) Act 2020 (as of February 1, 2021). These include mandatory data breach notification, an expanded deemed consent framework, new exceptions to the express consent requirement and new offences for the egregious mishandling of personal data or the unauthorized re-identification of anonymized information. The sections on increased financial penalty and the right of data portability are expected to come into force no earlier than February 1, 2022.
In addition, the Personal Data Protection (Notification of Data Breaches) Regulations 2021 and the Personal Data Protection Regulations 2021 came in effect from October 1, 2021. The updates to these include, among other things, clarifications to the scope of significant harm for mandatory data breach reporting and additional defences to the offence of egregious mishandling of personal data.
The Act has extraterritorial effect, meaning it applies to organizations collecting, using or disclosing personal data in Singapore whether or not the organization itself has a physical presence or is registered as a company in Singapore.
In addition to the Act, the Singapore data protection regime consists of various general or sector / industry-specific guidelines issued by the Personal Data Protection Commission ("Commission"). While these guidelines are advisory in nature and not legally binding, they indicate the manner in which the Commission will interpret the Act. Therefore, it is best practice to carefully observe and follow these guidelines.
The data protection obligations under the Act do not apply to the public sector, to whom separate rules under the Government Instruction Manual 8 ("IM8") and the Public Sector (Governance) Act apply. Collectively, these rules provide comparable standards of data protection compared to the Act, including similar investigations and enforcement actions taken against data security breaches. The Public Sector Data Security Review Committee was convened on March 31, 2019 to conduct a comprehensive review of data security policies and practices across the public sector. The Government implemented its recommendations and adopted changes to its data security measures. Examples include:

Requiring officers to password-protect files containing sensitive data when sending out; and
Enhancing the data incident management framework with standardized process to notify affected individuals in data incidents and conduct post-incident inquiry.
Last modified 21 Dec 2021
				
			