The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47).&nbsp;&nbsp; Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
Electronic marketing is regulated by the Electronic Communications Act. As a general rule, the data subject must be able to consent to the electronic marketing. The requirements for this consent depend on whether the addressee is a natural or a legal person, and whether there is an existing client relationship between the parties. Real time non-automated phone calls and regular mail are not considered electronic marketing under Estonian law.
The&nbsp;customer consent must be obtained separately from other terms of the contract between the parties – i.e. it cannot be obtained in the standard terms presented to the customer (eg, 'By accepting these terms you agree to receive our commercial communications at&nbsp;the email address provided to us'). In practice, a checkbox separate from the acceptance of the standard terms is often used to obtain this consent.
An opt-in consent is required if the addressee is a natural person, except in the case of an existing client relationship, where opt-out is permissible. The message itself must always include information to clearly determine the person on whose behalf the marketing is sent, clearly distinguishable direct marketing information and clear instructions on how to refuse to&nbsp;receive further direct marketing (eg, an unsubscribe link).
Reliance on an opt-out (for natural persons) in the framework of existing client relationships is subject to the following additional requirements:

the same entity has obtained the contact details in the course of a sale;
the direct marketing is in respect of similar goods or services;
the recipient was given a possibility to opt out at the collection of his / her personal data;
the message must include information to clearly determine the person on whose behalf the marketing is sent; and
the message must include clearly distinguishable direct marketing information and the recipient is given a simple means in each subsequent email to opt out/unsubscribe.

If the addressee is a legal person, the opt-out system is applicable. There is no need to obtain a prior consent for direct marketing, but:

the message must include information to clearly determine the person on whose behalf the marketing is sent;
the message must include clearly distinguishable direct marketing information; and&nbsp;
the recipient is given a simple means in each subsequent email to opt out / unsubscribe.
Last modified 12 Jan 2021
				
			