Fines
The GDPR empowers supervisory authorities to impose fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or EUR 20 million (whichever is higher).
It is the intention of the European Commission that fines should, where appropriate, be imposed by reference to the revenue of an economic undertaking rather than the revenues of the relevant controller or processor. Recital 150 of the GDPR states that 'undertaking' should be understood in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements between undertakings and abuse of a dominant position. Unhelpfully, the Treaty does not define ‘undertaking’ and the extensive case-law is not entirely straightforward, with decisions often turning on the specific facts of each case. However, in many competition cases, group companies have been regarded as part of the same undertaking. The assessment will turn on the facts of each case, and the first test cases under the GDPR will need to be scrutinised carefully to understand the interpretation of ‘undertaking’. Under EU competition law case-law, there is also precedent for regulators to impose joint and several liability on parent companies for fines imposed on those subsidiaries in some circumstances (broadly where there is participation or control), so-called "look through" liability. Again, it remains to be seen whether there will be a direct read-across of this principle into GDPR enforcement.
Fines are split into two broad categories.&nbsp;The highest fines (Article 83(5)) of up to EUR 20 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is higher, apply to infringement of:

the basic principles for processing including conditions for consent;
data subjects’ rights;
international transfer restrictions;
any obligations imposed by Member State law for special cases&nbsp;such as processing employee data; and
certain orders of a supervisory authority.

The lower category of fines (Article 83(4)) of up to EUR 10 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 2% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is the higher, apply to infringement of:

obligations of controllers and processors, including security and data breach notification obligations;
obligations of certification bodies; and
obligations of a monitoring body.

Supervisory authorities are not required to impose fines but must ensure in each case that the sanctions imposed are effective, proportionate and dissuasive (Article 83(1)).
Fines can be imposed in combination with other sanctions.
Investigative and corrective powers
Supervisory authorities also enjoy wide investigative and corrective powers (Article 58) including the power to undertake on-site data protection audits and the power to issue public warnings, reprimands and orders to carry out specific remediation activities.
Right to claim compensation
The GDPR makes specific provision for individuals to bring private claims against controllers and processors:

any person who has suffered "material or non-material damage" as a result of a breach of the GDPR has the right to receive compensation (Article 82(1)) from the controller or processor. The inclusion of “non-material” damage means that individuals will be able to claim compensation for distress even where they are not able to prove financial loss.
data subjects have the right to mandate a consumer protection body to exercise rights and bring claims on their behalf (Article 80).

Individuals also enjoy the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority (Article 77).&nbsp;
All natural and legal persons, including individuals, controllers and processors, have the right to an effective judicial remedy against a decision of a supervisory authority concerning them or for failing to make a decision (Article 78).
Data subjects enjoy the right to an effective legal remedy against a controller or processor (Article 79).
The PDPA specifies that the DPI is entitled to apply certain special state supervision measures to carry out the necessary state supervision, in addition the DPI is entitled to use the measures specified in article 58 of the GDPR. The DPI may make enquiries to electronic communications undertakings about the data required for the identification of an end-user related to the identification tokens used in the public electronic communications network, except for the data relating to the fact of transmission of messages, unless identification of an end-user is otherwise impossible. Further, with regard to administrative supervision, the DPI is, if the precepts it issued are not fulfilled, entitled to turn to a superior agency, person or body of the processor of personal data for organisation of supervisory control or commencement of disciplinary proceedings against an official. Upon failure to comply with a precept of the DPI, DPI may impose a penalty payment pursuant to the procedure provided for in the Substitutive Enforcement and Penalty Payment Act. The upper limit for a penalty payment is 20,000,000 euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher.In addition to the administrative supervision the DPI may also impose fines (in misdemeanor proceedings) of up to 20,000,000 euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher.The PDPA also specifies the term for review of complaints,&nbsp;ie, the DPI shall settle a complaint within&nbsp;30 days after the date of filing the complaint with the Data Protection Inspectorate. In order to additionally clarify certain circumstances this term may be extended by up to&nbsp;60 days. If cooperation with other relevant supervisory agencies is required, then the term is extended by a reasonable period necessary to receive the opinion from the other agency.Last modified 12 Jan 2021
				
			