The Privacy Commissioner is responsible for the enforcement of the Privacy Act and will investigate an act or practice if the act or practice may be an interference with the privacy of an individual and a complaint about the act or practice has been made. Generally, the Privacy Commissioner prefers mediated outcomes between the complainant and the relevant organization. Importantly, where the Privacy Commissioner undertakes an investigation of a complaint which is not settled, it is required to ensure that the results of that investigation are publicly available. Currently, this is undertaken by disclosure through the OAIC website of the entire investigation report.
The Privacy Commissioner may also investigate any "interferences with the privacy of an individual" (ie, any breaches of the APPs) on its own initiative (ie, where no complaint has been made) and the same remedies as below are available.
After investigating a complaint, the Privacy Commissioner may dismiss the complaint or find the complaint substantiated and make declarations that the organization rectify its conduct or that the organization redress any loss or damage suffered by the complainant (which can include non-pecuniary loss such as awards for stress and/or humiliation). Furthermore, fines of up to AU$440,000 for an individual and AU$2.2 million for corporations may be requested by the Privacy Commissioner and imposed by the Courts for serious or repeated interferences with the privacy of individuals.
Following the release of the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s Digital Platforms Inquiry report in December 2019, the Australian Government accepted the need for proposed reforms to the Privacy Act. A draft bill has been published which would increase penalties under the Privacy Act to the greater of: AU$ 10 million, three times the value of the benefit obtained through the misconduct, or 10% of annual turnover (as well as introducing the framework for a binding online privacy code for social media and certain other online platforms including data brokerage services and platforms with more than 2,500,000 end users in Australia (excluding customer loyalty schemes). If these changes proceed, they would bring penalties for corporations in line with those already in force under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) for breaches of the Australian Consumer Law. As well as the current prosed changes, a broader review of the Privacy Act is currently being undertaken by the Australian Government, in accordance with the published terms of reference.Last modified 23 Dec 2021
				
			