The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on 25 May 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.The Data Protection Act (2018:218) and the Data Protection Ordinance (2018:19) (the "DPA")&nbsp;– The DPA regulates general aspects of&nbsp;data protection&nbsp;where the GDPR allows, e.g. processing of social security numbers and processing of data pertaining to criminal offences. The DPA entered into force on 25 May 2018.
In addition to the Swedish DPA, a vast number of sector specific acts and amendments to such existing acts have been adopted in Sweden, for example relating to the sectors of healthcare, scientific research, &nbsp;finance, energy, environment, education, referendums/elections, enterprise, communication, labour market, etc.
On December 17th 2021, the new Swedish Whistleblowing Act (2021: 890) (the "Whistleblowing Act") entered into force. The Whistleblowing Act implements the EU Directive 2019/1937 on the protection of persons who report breaches of Union law, and contains a specific chapter regarding processing of personal data (Chapter 7). Chapter 7 of the Whistleblowing Act contains, inter alia, provisions on permitted purposes of processing personal data, internal access to personal data and retention periods. The provisions in the Whistleblowing Act supplement the GDPR.