In the relation to the Cybercrimes, the injured party shall have the right to submit a complaint before the Cybercrime Unit and the latter shall review the complaint and transfer it to the court.
Mandatory breach notification
It is stated in the aforementioned draft Personal Data Protection law, under Article (6), that a unit will be established within the Ministry of Digital Economy and Entrepreneurship, which will be responsible for preparing a regulation that controls the process of receiving notifications and complaints regarding any violations that may affect personal data.
The second law is “Cyber Security Law No. 16 of 2019” as it has established a National Center for Cyber Security, which receives complaints and reports related to cyber security and cyber security incidents. The law opened the door for further collaboration with different official entities according to its sphere of specialty.
The Cybersecurity Framework for Jordan Financial Sector – V. 1 – July, 2021, states that organizational-level severity rating is performed by the entity to define the point at which the incident should be treated as a disaster, in addition to determine escalation procedures, as well as human resources and time durations to recover. The entity has to notify the Central Bank of Jordan / Financial Cyber Emergency Response Team about the incident according to the following timelines:

Initial notification within 2 hours from confirming time.
After the closure of the incident for “Low” incidents.
Within 8 hours from confirming the incident and one time every two business days for “Medium” incidents.
Within 4 hours from confirming the incident and once a day for “High” incidents.

Additionally, Article (49) of the Instructions for Handling Cyber Risks No. (26/1/1/1984) for the Year 2018 stipulates that “the company shall notify the Central Bank in the event of discovering that it has been exposed to any cyber incident or any attempt of cyber-attack characterised by a high degree of danger to its systems or networks, no later than 72 hours from the moment of discovery of the cyber-event and according to the mechanism that will be adopted by the Central Bank, and inform the relevant security services of any case of embezzlement, forgery, theft or fraud resulting from the cyber event as soon as it is discovered and in accordance with the relevant laws and instructions.”Last modified 16 Feb 2022
				
			