The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
The Personal Data Protection Law does not specifically address (electronic) marketing. However the use of personal data for marketing purposes falls within the scope of the law. The provisions on electronic marketing are also included in the Law on Information Society Services, which requires prior express consent of the person before using his or her contact information (eg, email address, phone number) for electronic marketing purposes. This is also stressed in the guidelines provided by DSI.
According to the provisions of the Law on Information Society Services no consent is required if the data has been obtained in the course of the sale of goods or provision of services, occurs for the same or similar goods or services, the recipient is able to decline easily and with no costs for the use of his or her personal data and the recipient has not previously declared that he or she does not want to be contacted.
With the Amendments of April 19, 2017, the Law on Information Society Services also contains procedures for submitting and reviewing complaints which states that the end user has the right to submit any complaints regarding the provision of the electronic communications services (thus also possibly any data protection issues), firstly, to the relevant electronic communications merchant and afterwards to the Public Utilities Commission.The Personal Data Processing Law does not provide any derogations or additional requirements to the GDPR regarding electronic marketing.