The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.Electronic marketing activities are subject to the regulation of Polish data protection law, i.e. the Act of July 18, 2002 on Providing Services by Electronic Means (consolidated text: Journal of Laws of 2018, item 123, hereinafter referred to as the PSEM) and the Telecommunications Act.
The processing of personal data for its own marketing purposes by a data controller (as well as other companies from the group) may be based on Article 6 sec. 1(f) of the GDPR – legitimate interests of the data controller, and it does not require separate consent. However, the data subject may always object to such processing. Nevertheless, if marketing activities relate to products and services of third parties, prior consent for such processing is necessary.
Apart from consent to the processing of personal data (if it is required), the PSEM imposes an obligation to obtain separate consent to the sending of commercial information by electronic means, (eg,&nbsp;by email and SMS) to a specified recipient (natural person). Therefore, a service provider is obliged to obtain the relevant consent before sending the commercial information (by email or SMS) to a natural person. On the other hand, it is permitted to send such information without prior consent to recipients that are legal persons to a general email addresses (such as [email&#160;protected]) and to a specific employee's business email address (such as [email&#160;protected]). According to the Implementing act, the consent under the PSEM must comply with the GDPR requirements as regards the format. Sending commercial information without consent is considered to be an act of unfair competition and a service provider should be able to provide evidence that it has obtained consent.
Pursuant to the Telecommunications Act, using end telecommunications devices (for instance, to present a marketing offer during a telephone call) or automated calling systems for direct marketing requires the obtaining of another consent declaration from the recipient (subscriber or end user). In practice, the relationship between the abovementioned regulations (especially between the provisions of the new PDPA and the Telecommunications Act) and the scope of particular consent declarations that should be obtained by service providers is not perfectly clear in this regard. However, it seems that, generally, the consent to direct marketing by means of telecommunications devices and automated calling systems should be obtained separately from the consent to the processing of personal data (if required) and to consent to the sending of commercial information by electronic means. According to the Implementing act, the consent of the subscriber or the end user must comply with the GDPR requirements as regards the format.