Fines
The GDPR empowers supervisory authorities to impose fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or EUR 20 million (whichever is higher).
It is the intention of the European Commission that fines should, where appropriate, be imposed by reference to the revenue of an economic undertaking rather than the revenues of the relevant controller or processor. Recital 150 of the GDPR states that 'undertaking' should be understood in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements between undertakings and abuse of a dominant position. Unhelpfully, the Treaty does not define undertaking and the extensive case-law is not entirely straightforward, with decisions often turning on the specific facts of each case. However, in many competition cases, group companies have been regarded as part of the same undertaking. The assessment will turn on the facts of each case, and the first test cases under the GDPR will need to be scrutinized carefully to understand the interpretation of undertaking. Under EU competition law case-law, there is also precedent for regulators to impose joint and several liability on parent companies for fines imposed on those subsidiaries in some circumstances (broadly where there is participation or control), so-called look through liability. Again, it remains to be seen whether there will be a direct read-across of this principle into GDPR enforcement.
Fines are split into two broad categories.&nbsp;The highest fines (Article 83(5)) of up to EUR 20 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is higher, apply to infringement of:

The basic principles for processing including conditions for consent
Data subjects’ rights
International transfer restrictions
Any obligations imposed by Member State law for special cases&nbsp;such as processing employee data
Certain orders of a supervisory authority

The lower category of fines (Article 83(4)) of up to EUR 10 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 2% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is the higher, apply to infringement of:

Obligations of controllers and processors, including security and data breach notification obligations
Obligations of certification bodies
Obligations of a monitoring body

Supervisory authorities are not required to impose fines but must ensure in each case that the sanctions imposed are effective, proportionate and dissuasive (Article 83(1)).
Fines can be imposed in combination with other sanctions.
Investigative and corrective powers
Supervisory authorities also enjoy wide investigative and corrective powers (Article 58) including the power to undertake on-site data protection audits and the power to issue public warnings, reprimands and orders to carry out specific remediation activities.
Right to claim compensation
The GDPR makes specific provision for individuals to bring private claims against controllers and processors:

Any person who has suffered "material or non-material damage" as a result of a breach of the GDPR has the right to receive compensation (Article 82(1)) from the controller or processor. The inclusion of “non-material” damage means that individuals will be able to claim compensation for distress even where they are not able to prove financial loss.
Data subjects have the right to mandate a consumer protection body to exercise rights and bring claims on their behalf (Article 80).

Individuals also enjoy the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority (Article 77).&nbsp;
All natural and legal persons, including individuals, controllers and processors, have the right to an effective judicial remedy against a decision of a supervisory authority concerning them or for failing to make a decision (Article 78).
Data subjects enjoy the right to an effective legal remedy against a controller or processor (Article 79).The President of the Office is responsible for the enforcement of Polish data protection law and as such is entitled to carry out audits of data controllers in order to determine their compliance with the regulations on the protection of personal data and to impose administrative fines, by means of an administrative decision, pursuant to Article 83 of the GDPR.
The new PDPA provides for a lower level of fines that can be imposed on public authorities for breaching the GDPR&nbsp;– the maximum amount is PLN 100,000 (approx. EUR 25,000).
The new PDPA maintains criminal liability for individuals who process personal data:

where such processing is forbidden or where he or she is not authorized to carry out such processing; in this case, the person may be liable to a fine, a partial restriction of liberty, or imprisonment of up to two years (or three years if special categories of personal data are processed).
and who prevents or hinders the performance of inspection activities conducted by the President of the Office (or its delegated inspectors); in this case the person may be liable to a fine, a restriction of liberty, or imprisonment of up to two years.

As only individuals (and not legal entities) may be prosecuted for criminal offences, the person who may potentially face criminal charges would be a member of the management board (the person performing the role of data controller in a legal entity) or an employee authorized to process personal data (eg,&nbsp;a data protection officer or human resources officer).
In 2019, five administrative fines were issued by the Polish DPA.
The first one was issued on 15 March 2019 and concerned a private company processing data gathered from publicly available sources for the purpose of providing its clients with reports on other business entities. As a main concern, the Polish DPA indicated non-compliance with the information obligations from Art. 14 of the GDPR, in particular the exception listed in Art. 14 sec. 5 of the GDPR. As a result, a fine of approximately EUR 220,017 was issued. The company lodged an appeal following the decision. As of December 2019, the administrative court has issued a decision stating that the Polish DPA has to re-examine the amount of fine, but also upholding the main points of the decision, in particular concerning the invalid use of the exception listed in Art. 14 sec. 5 of the GDPR, c and the proceedings are ongoing.
The second fine was issued on 25 April 2019. The case concerned a football association which erroneously made personal data of football referees available, in particular the national personal identification number (PESEL) which is considered sensitive data and indicated as a major risk factor in case of a breach. The amount of fine was EUR 13,000.
The third fine was the highest so far – EUR 660,000. The decision was issued against an online retailer, whose online platform was subject to a hacking attack, resulting in a large amount of personal records to be leaked online. The subsequent proceedings indicated that the organizational and technical measures taken by the retailer were not appropriate to the risk posed by the processing of personal data. Additionally, the Polish DPA questioned the measures taken by the retailer following the incident as inadequate.&nbsp;The company appealed against the fine to the administrative court, however in this case the court upheld the decision. The company’s lawyers might appeal further – to the Supreme Administrative Court. It was commented that the administrative court should in fact pose judicial questions to the CJEU.
The fourth fine was issued against a company providing marketing services (text messages, e-mails, online campaigns)in relation to its complicated procedure for withdrawing the data subject’s consent, which was assessed by the Polish DPA as an obstruction of the right to withdraw consent. This company was fined EUR 47,000.
The last fine in 2019 was the first one to be issued against a public entity&nbsp;– a local municipality was fined for not entering into data processing agreements with the external entities to which it transferred personal data. The amount of the administrative fine was approximately EUR 9,328.
In 2020, the Polish DPA issued nine administrative fines. Most of them were connected with a failure to provide information to the Polish DPA or lack of cooperation with the authority.
The first fine was imposed on a school which used a biometric reader at the entrance to its canteen in order to check whether children had paid for their meal. The Polish DPA considered such data processing as disproportionate with respect to its purpose. The school was fined ca. EUR 4,700.
The second fine was imposed on a company from the telemarketing industry as a result of its insufficient cooperation with the authority. This company was fined ca. EUR 4,700.
The third fine was imposed on a person running a nursery and pre-school who failed to provide the Polish DPA with access to personal data and other information necessary for it to perform its tasks - in this case, to assess whether the data controller communicated a data breach to the data subject in accordance with the GDPR. The person was fined ca. EUR 1,700.
The fourth fine was imposed on the owner of a website for failing to provide the DPA with access to personal data and other information necessary for it to perform its tasks. This was the first cross-border case handled by the Polish DPA. The owner of the website was fined EUR 3,400.
The next two fines were imposed the Surveyor General of Poland (“GGK”) in two separate proceedings. The first fine was connected with a failure to provide the supervisory authority - during an inspection - with access to premises, data processing equipment, personal data and information necessary for the Polish DPA to perform its tasks. Furthermore, GGK did not cooperate with the Polish DPA during the inspection. As a result, GGK was fined EUR 22,700. A second fine of the same amount was imposed due to an infringement of the principle of lawfulness of personal data processing and intentionally making personal data available without a legal basis on the Internet (www.geoportal2.pl).
The seventh fine was connected with a personal data breach at the Warsaw University of Life Sciences (SGGW), mainly due to insufficient technical and organisational measures to ensure information security. The university was fined EUR 11,200.
The eighth fine was imposed on a provider of telecommunications services for the lack of appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the security of the data it was processing. The company was fined EUR 444,000 – the biggest fine of 2020.
The last fine of 2020 was imposed on an insurance and reinsurance company for the insufficient fulfilment of data breach notification obligations. The Polish DPA received information from a third party about a personal data breach which consisted in the sending by email of an insurance policy by an insurance agent (a data processor of the insurance and reinsurance company) to an unauthorised addressee. Five months after the breach happened, the insurance and reinsurance company itself notified the DPA about the data breach and the two persons affected by it. The Polish DPA considered this as a long-lasting breach, which constitutes an aggravating circumstance, and the company was fined EUR 18,930.