Enforcement of the GDPR is the prerogative of data protection regulators, known as supervisory authorities (for example, the CNIL in France or the Garante in Italy). The European Data Protection Board (the replacement for the so-called Article 29 Working Party) is comprised of delegates from the supervisory authorities, and monitors the application of the GDPR across the EU, issuing guidelines to encourage consistent interpretation of the Regulation.
The GDPR creates the concept of "lead supervisory authority". Where there is cross-border processing of personal data (ie, processing taking place in establishments of a controller or processor in multiple Member States, or taking place in a single establishment of a controller or processor but affecting data subjects in multiple Member States), then the starting point for enforcement is that controllers and processors are regulated by and answer to the supervisory authority for their main or single establishment, the so-called "lead supervisory authority" (Article 56(1)).
However, the lead supervisory authority is required to cooperate with all other "concerned" authorities, and a supervisory authority in another Member State may enforce where infringements occur on its territory or substantially affect data subjects only in its territory (Article 56(2)).
The concept of lead supervisory authority is therefore of somewhat limited help to multinationals.Germany does not have one central Data Protection Authority but a number of different Authorities for each of the 16 German states (Länder) that are responsible for making sure that data protection laws and regulations are complied with. In addition the German Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (Bundesbeauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit&nbsp;– ‘BfDI’) is the Data Protection Authority for telecommunication service providers and represents Germany in the European Data Protection Board. To ensure that all the Authorities have the same approach a committee consisting of members of all Authorities for the public and the private sector has been established – the 'Data Protection Conference' (Datenschutzkonferenz&nbsp;'DSK'). The coordination mechanism between the German Authorities mirrors the consistency mechanism under the GDPR.
A list with the contact details and websites of the different can be&nbsp;found here.