The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is likely to be replaced by a regulation (the so called ePrivacy Regulation), but it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
In general, unsolicited electronic marketing requires prior opt-in consent. The opt-in requirement is waived under the ‘same service / product’ exemption. The exemption concerns marketing emails related to the same products/services as previously purchased from the sender by the user provided that:

the user has been informed of the right to opt-out prior to the first marketing email&nbsp;
the user did not opt-out, and&nbsp;
the user is informed of the right to opt-out of any marketing email received. The exemption applies to electronic communication such as electronic text messages and email but does not apply with respect to communications sent by fax.

Direct marketing emails must not disguise or conceal the identity of the sender.Like the GDPR, the German BDSG also does not provide for any specific provisions regarding marketing. The use of electronic communication for the purpose of direct marketing as currently regulated in ePrivacy Directive has been transposed into German law and is implemented in Sec.&nbsp;7 of the German Act Against Unfair Competition (Gesetz gegen den unlauteren Wettbewerb&nbsp;– ‘UWG’) As emphasized by the German Authorities (in their guidelines on direct marketing), processing of personal data for the purpose of marketing communication which is in breach of Sec. 7 UWG also constitutes a breach of the GDPR as it does not follow a legitimate purpose.
When using electronic communication for direct marketing, prior consent is generally required, cf. Sec. 7 (2) no. 1, 2 UWG, the standard for this being the so-called Double Opt-In process. According to Article 6 (1) a) GDPR as well as according to established German case law, data subjects must always give consent for a specific processing purpose. This means that the person to be contacted needs to know (1) from whom (meaning which specific entity or entities) and (2) for which specific products and services he / she will receive marketing offers.
The German lawmaker has also transposed the ‘same service / product’ exemption into Sec. 7 UWG. Based on Sec. 7 (3) UWG, direct marketing can be based on the exemption if the following prerequisites are met:

the recipients electronic mail address was obtained from the sender in connection with the sale of goods or services;
the sender uses the address for direct advertising of his own similar goods or services (no cross-selling permitted);
the recipient has not objected to this use; and
the recipient is clearly and unequivocally advised, upon the collection of the address as well as each time it is used, that he or she can object to such use at any time, without costs arising by virtue thereof, other than transmission costs pursuant to the basic rates.
