The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.Germany has adjusted the German legal framework to the GDPR by passing the new German Federal Data Protection Act (Bundesdatenschutzgesetz – ‘BDSG'). The BDSG was officially published on July 5, 2017 and came into force together with the GDPR on May 25, 2018. The purpose of the BDSG is especially to make use of the numerous opening clauses under the GDPR which enable Member States to specify or even restrict the data processing requirements under the GDPR.
Find the English version here.
In addition to the BDSG, there exist a number of data protection rules in area-specific laws, for example those regulating financial trade or the energy sector. Many of these laws have been adapted to the GDPR by the Second Data Protection Adaptation and Implementation Act EU (Zweites Datenschutz-Anpassungs- und Umsetzungsgesetz EU – ‘2. DSAnpUG-EU’), which generally entered into force on November 26, 2019. However, some particularly relevant laws have so far remained unchanged, most notably the Telemedia Act (Telemediengesetz – ‘TMG’), raising questions about the continued applicability of the data protection rules contained therein.