The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) supersedes national data protection law unless there is an opening clause constituted under GDPR. Due to Art. 95 GDPR this is the case for national data protection law that was created to implement the Directive on privacy and electronic communication (Directive 2002/58/EC; "ePrivacy Directive").
The German legislator created national data protection regulations for providers of telecommunication services within the German Telecommunications Act (Telekommunikationsgesetz – TKG) and for providers of certain electronic information and communication services (e.g. website operators) within the German Telemedia Act (Telemediengesetz – TMG). However, the German legislator exceeded the requirements of the ePrivacy Directive with the data protection law included within the TKG in certain cases. Therefore, some sections of the TKG are not applicable in part and some not at all; in such cases GDPR applies accordingly (e.g. regarding data subject’s rights).
With regard to the TMG it is currently unclear, to what extent the sections related to data protection law of the TMG are still applicable under the GDPR. While the German Data Protection Authorities have jointly expressed the view that the data protection law included in the TMG was not created to implement the ePrivacy Directive and that solely GDPR would be applicable, the German Federal Court of Justice (Bundesgerichtshof – ‘BGH’) has ruled that Sec. 15 (3) TMG (dealing with the use of cookies and similar technologies) is still applicable (see below).
The German lawmaker is currently working on an amendment of the data protection rules under both the TKG and the TMG.
Cookie compliance
Until 28 May 2020, the legal requirements with regard to the use of cookies were unclear in Germany. Prior to that, it was disputed whether there was any consent requirement for cookies at all, as the respective provisions of the ePrivacy Directive have never been transposed into German law (the German data protection authorities jointly confirmed this view in a joint paper published in March 2019 that this is not the case). However, on 28 May 2020, the BGH has ruled that Sec. 15 (3) TMG (which technically only provides for an opt-out requirement regarding the use of cookies) is to be construed as a requirement for cookie consent in the meaning of the ePrivacy Directive. Therefore, cookie consent is now a requirement in Germany as well.
In addition to that, the German data protection authorities have long been of the opinion that the processing of personal data enabled by the cookies used for analysis and tracking tools regularly requires consent, in particular if the tools allow third parties to collect data from website users as (joint) controllers. It remains to be seen whether this position will be upheld by the BGH or another superior German court.
Traffic data
Lawful processing of traffic data requires an explicit legal basis under the TKG and may only take place for purposes constituted therein or justified by other legal provisions. Providers of publicly available telecommunication services have to take the technical precautions and actions necessary to protect personal data; in this context the state of the art must be observed. In addition, the service providers are required to protect the secrecy of telecommunications.
Providers of publicly available telecommunication services may process traffic data for the establishment and maintaining of a telecommunications connection, remuneration inquiry and billing, fraud prevention as well as detection and remedy of disruptions regarding telecommunications systems and tracing of malicious or nuisance calls. Processing of traffic data for marketing purposes, need-based design of telecommunication services and provision of value-added services requires consent.
Generally, traffic data shall be deleted by the service provider without undue delay after termination of each telecommunications connection or as soon as the data are no longer necessary in relation to the purpose for which they are otherwise being processed. However, data may and must be stored in case statutory retention periods under the TKG or other law apply.
Service providers shall notify the users without undue delay, if any faults of data processing systems of the users become known. As far as technically possible and reasonable the service provider has to inform the users about adequate, effective and accessible measures for detecting and rectifying such faults.
Location data
Publicly available telecommunication services may only process location data for the purpose of providing value-added services in case the data are rendered anonymous or processing is based on consent.
Consent can be withdrawn at any time and where consent was given to the processing of location data, it must be possible, by simple means and free of charge, to temporarily prohibit the processing of such data for each connection to the network or for each transmission of a message.
The processing of location data in other contexts than telecommunication services (like for example GPS tracking) is subject to GDPR.Last modified 12 Jan 2021
				
			