Personal data&nbsp;is defined as "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person" (Article 4). A low bar is set for "identifiable" – if the natural person can be identified using “all means reasonably likely to be used” (Recital 26) the information is personal data. A name is not necessary either – any identifier will do, such as an identification number, phone number, location data or other factors which may identify that natural person.
Online identifiers are expressly called out in Recital 30, with IP addresses, cookies and RFID tags all listed as examples.
The GDPR creates more restrictive rules for the processing of special categories&nbsp;(Article 9) of personal data (including data relating to race, religion, sexual life, data pertaining to health, genetics and biometrics) and personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences (Article 10).
The GDPR is concerned with the processing&nbsp;of personal data. Processing has an extremely wide meaning, and includes any set of operations performed on data, including the mere storage, hosting, consultation or deletion of the data.
Personal data may be processed by either a controller&nbsp;or a processor. The controller is the decision maker, the person who "alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data" (Article 4). The processor "processes personal data on behalf of the controller", acting on the instructions of the controller. In contrast to the previous law, the GDPR imposes direct obligations on both the controller and the processor, although fewer obligations are imposed on the processor.
The "data subject" is a living, natural person whose personal data are processed by either a controller or a processor.The Data Protection Law refers to the definitions provided by the GDPR. Only two definitions: ‘direct marketing’ and ‘institutions and authorities’ are defined differently in the Data Protection Law.
Under the Data Protection Law, 'direct marketing' means any activity consisting of offering goods or services or asking opinion on the goods or services offered, by post, telephone or other direct means.
'Institutions and authorities' means state and municipal institutions and authorities, enterprises and public institutions, financed from state or municipal budgets and state monetary funds and authorized by the Law on Public Administration of the Republic of Lithuania to perform public administration activities or to provide public or administrative services to persons or to perform other public functions.