Traffic Data
Traffic Data held by a public electronic communications services provider must be erased or anonymized when it is no longer necessary for the purpose of the transmission of a communication. However, Traffic Data can be retained if:

It is being used to provide a value added service
consent has been given for the retention of the Traffic Data
It is required for investigation of a grave crime

Traffic Data can only be processed by a CSP for:

The management of business needs, such as billing or traffic
Dealing with customer enquiries
The prevention of fraud
The provision of a value added service

Cookies
The use of cookies is permitted only if approved by the user (under Lithuanian law, an opt-in principle applies). However, consent is not required for cookies used for website technical structure and for cookies used for showing website content. Consent is not required for session ID cookies and for so called 'shopping basket' cookies (these exceptions do not apply if such cookies are used for collecting statistical information on use of the website).
Clear and exhaustive information on use of cookies, including information about the purpose of cookie related data processing, must be provided. This information should be provided in the privacy policy of the website. Consent to the terms of the website’s privacy policy or terms of use containing the information on use of cookies is considered insufficient. Consent though web browser settings may be considered adequate only if the browser settings allow choosing what cookies may be used and for what purposes. However, considering the nature of currently used web browsers consent through web browser settings is not considered appropriate under Lithuanian law.
Location data
Processing of location data triggers personal data processing laws. The data controller must have a legitimate basis for such personal data processing (eg, the data subject has given his consent; a contract to which the data subject is party is being concluded or performed; it is a legal obligation of the data controller under laws to process personal data; processing is necessary in order to protect vital interests of the data subject; etc.).The Data Protection Law does not provide any derogations or additional requirements to the GDPR regarding online privacy.