In New Zealand, the Privacy Commissioner is responsible for investigating a breach of privacy laws. The Privacy Commissioner has powers to enquire into any matter if the Privacy Commissioner believes that the privacy of an individual is being, or is likely to be, infringed. The Privacy Commissioner will primarily seek to settle a complaint by conciliation and mediation. If a complaint cannot be settled in this way, a formal investigation may be conducted so that the Privacy Commissioner may form an opinion on how the law applies to the complaint. The Privacy Commissioner’s opinion is not legally binding but is highly persuasive.
If the Privacy Commissioner is of the opinion that there has been an interference with privacy, the Privacy Commissioner may refer the matter to the Director of Human Rights who may then in turn decide to take the complaint to the Human Rights Review Tribunal. The Tribunal will hear the complaint afresh and its decision is legally binding. It can award damages for breaches of privacy.
The Privacy Commissioner can also issue compliance notices requiring agencies to take certain actions, or stop certain activities, in order to comply with the Act. Compliance notices will describe the steps that the Privacy Commissioner considers are required to remedy non-compliance with the Act and will specify a date by which the agency must make the necessary changes.&nbsp; The Privacy Commissioner can also issue access directions requiring agencies to provide individuals access to their personal information.
It is an offence to:

mislead an agency to access another individual's personal information
destroy personal information, knowing that a request has been made to access it
without reasonable excuse, obstruct, hinder, or resist the Privacy Commissioner or any other person in the exercise of their powers under the Act
without reasonable excuse, refuse or fail to comply with any lawful requirement of the Privacy Commissioner or any other person under the Act
give false or misleading statements to the Privacy Commissioner
represent directly or indirectly that a person holds any authority under the Act when they do not hold that authority, or
fail&nbsp; to notify the Privacy Commissioner of a notifiable privacy breach

The penalty for these offences is a fine of up to NZD 10,000.Last modified 20 Dec 2021
				
			