Investigations by the FDPIC
Under current data protection law the FDPIC does not have specific direct powers to enforce the DPA. He may investigate cases on his own initiative or at the request of a third party and may issue recommendations that a specific data processing practice be changed or abandoned. If the FDPIC's recommendation is not complied with, he may refer the matter to the Swiss Federal Administrative Court for a decision.
In a recent proceeding that concluded with a final report on August&nbsp;4, 2021, the FDPIC addressed privacy concerns regarding a contact tracing app for restaurants and other venues which had been developed by a private company in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. The FDPIC identified numerous shortcomings regarding the tracing app, such as organizational and technical deficiencies. His investigation also revealed that the company granted authorities of two cantons direct access to the central database, making it available for almost any person-related queries, thereby violating the principle of proportionality. As a result, personal data was (allegedly) processed for purposes other than those initially intended. Further privacy concerns related to the completeness of the information provided to users, the transfer of telephone numbers to the USA as part of the number verification process, and the configuration of the platform on which the central database was located.
After a lengthy procedure, the FDPIC issued ten recommendations, the majority of which were accepted and implemented by the company in question. Some of the deficiencies were initially disputed, but later acknowledged and, according to the company's own statement, resolved. The FDPIC reserved the right to verify the implementation of his recommendations as part of follow-up inspections. To the extent that his recommendations were not fully acknowledged by the company, the FDPIC has also reserved the right to conduct follow-up checks and, if necessary, to bring an action before the Federal Administrative Court, which could then issue a (legally binding) decision.
The revised DPA will extend the FDPIC's supervisory powers: In particular, the FDPIC may under certain conditions initiate an investigation against a federal body or a private person and will have the authority to directly issue orders and warnings. With regard to the above-mentioned investigation regarding the contact tracing app, the revised DPA would allow the FDPIC, for example, to directly order that certain data processing activities be adjusted, suspended or terminated, without having to first issue (non-binding) recommendations only and then, to the extent necessary, involve the Federal Administrative Court.
Sanctions
The current DPA provides for criminal liability and fines of up to CHF 10,000 if a private person intentionally fails to comply with the following obligations under the DPA:

Duty to provide information when collecting sensitive data and personality profiles
Duty to safeguard the data subject’s right to information
Obligation to notify the FDPIC with regard to contractual clauses or binding corporate rules in connection with data transfers abroad
Obligation to register data files, or
Duty to cooperate in an FDPIC investigation

Furthermore, the DPA provides for criminal liability and fines of up to CHF10,000 if a private person willfully discloses confidential, sensitive personal data or personality profiles that have come to his or her knowledge in the course of his or her professional activities, where such activities require the knowledge of such data, or in the course of his or her activities for a person bound by professional secrecy obligations or in the course of training with such a person.
Criminal proceedings must be initiated by the competent cantonal prosecution authority.
Under the revised DPA a number of violations of the DPA or lack of cooperation with the FDPIC can result in criminal fines of up to CHF 250,000 against responsible individuals (acting intentionally).
Finally, under Swiss civil law the data subject may apply for injunctive relief and may file a claim for damages as well as satisfaction and/or surrender of profits based on the infringement of his/her privacy.Last modified 31 Dec 2021
				
			