The processing of personal data is mainly regulated by the Federal Act on Data Protection of June 19, 1992 (DPA) and its ordinances, ie, the Ordinance to the Federal Act on Data Protection (DPO) and the Ordinance on Data Protection Certification (ODPC).
In addition, the processing of personal data is further restricted by provisions in other laws, mainly with regard to the public sector and regulated markets.
It should be noted that the DPA has recently been subject to a substantial revision. On September 15, 2017, the Federal Council published the final draft and the dispatch to the Federal Parliament regarding the new DPA. In the summer of 2018, the revision was split into two parts. The first part relates to the implementation of the EU Directive 2016/680 in the context of the Schengen/Dublin treaty and has no immediate impact on data subjects (as it is generally limited to the federal authorities' competencies in the context of administrative and judicial assistance in criminal matters). This first part has come into force on March 1, 2019.
The second part is the actual comprehensive revision of the DPA (based on the draft legislation of September 15, 2017). The detailed consultation in Parliament started in June 2018. On September 25, 2020, the Parliament has approved the final text of the revised law, and the referendum period has expired on January&nbsp;14, 2021. This concludes the legislative project to revise the DPA. However, the corresponding implementing provisions in the DPO have not yet been enacted. A first draft of the revised DPO published by the Federal Council has met harsh criticism, in particular regarding far-reaching extensions of obligations which had no legal basis in the DPA. The Federal Council has taken note of this and is in the process of redrafting the DPO, which is not expected to be published before spring 2022. As the revised DPA and implementing DPO shall come into force simultaneously, it is to be expected that they will not enter into force before mid-2022 or even beginning of 2023. It should be noted that the revised DPA does not provide for a transition period, but will become effective immediately upon its entry into force.
The revision of the DPA aims to strengthen data protection in general and to align the DPA with the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), in order to facilitate compliance of Swiss companies with those aspects of the GDPR that are applicable to controllers or processors outside of the EU, and to ensure that the EU will continue to consider Switzerland as providing an adequate level of data protection. However, the revised DPA will still provide for certain deviations from the GDPR provisions, thus requiring certain "Swiss Add-Ons" in a number of areas.
Territorial scope
The current DPA's extraterritorial applicability is very limited and based on Swiss private international law. The revised DPA will, like the GDPR, have an extraterritorial scope and thus be applicable, for instance, to international companies with group entities in Switzerland or, under certain circumstances, to international companies even without such subsidiary in Switzerland based on doing business in Switzerland.
In addition, the revised DPA provides that private controllers domiciled abroad must designate a representative in Switzerland if they process personal data of data subjects in Switzerland and the data processing fulfils all of the following requirements:

The data processing is connected to offering goods or services in Switzerland or to monitoring the behavior of data subjects in Switzerland.
The processing is extensive.
The processing is regular.
The processing involves a high risk for the personality of the data subjects.

For civil claims, the Swiss conflict of law rules apply.Last modified 31 Dec 2021
				
			