The processing of personal data in the context of online services is subject to the general rules pertaining to the collection of personal data under the DPA. In addition, certain aspects of online privacy are covered by other regulations, such as the use of cookies which is also subject to the Swiss Telecommunications Act (TCA).
Under the TCA, the use of cookies is considered to be processing of data on external equipment, eg, another person’s computer. Such processing is only permitted if users are informed about the processing and its purpose as well as about the means to refuse the processing, eg, by configuring their web browser to reject cookies.
In addition, the general rules under the DPA apply where cookies collect data related to persons who are identified or identifiable, ie, personal data. The collection of personal data through cookies as well as the purpose of such a collection must be evident to the data subject. The personal data collected may only be processed for the purpose:

Indicated at the time of collection,
That is evident from the circumstances, or
That is provided for by law.

Where the personal data collected through a cookie is (a) considered sensitive data, eg, data regarding religious, ideological, political views or activities, or (b) so comprehensive that it forms a personality profile, ie, permits an assessment of essential characteristics of the personality of a person, or (under the revised DPA) is considered resulting from high-risk profiling, then regarding both (a) and (b) the stricter rules pertaining to the processing of sensitive personal data are applicable.
These stricter rules provide, inter alia, that the data subject must be informed of:

The identity of the data controller
The purpose of data processing, and
The categories of data recipients if the data shall be disclosed to third parties.

The revised DPA will contain a number of information obligations the violation of which will be subject to sanctions. Furthermore, in relation to the processing of sensitive personal data or personality profiles, or (under the revised DPA) in relation to high-risk profiling implied consent is not sufficient; consent must be given expressly.Last modified 31 Dec 2021
				
			