Personal data may be transferred outside Switzerland if the destination country offers an adequate level of data protection. The FDPIC maintains and publishes a non-binding list of such countries (the revised DPA provides for binding adequacy decisions by the Federal Council). It should be noted that, under Swiss data protection law, remote access to data residing in Switzerland from outside of Switzerland is considered a transfer / disclosure abroad.
The FDPIC deems the data protection legislation of all EU and EEA countries to be adequate with regard to personal data of individuals. With regard to personal data of legal entities, this is not the case, as pursuant to the corresponding list of "safe countries" published by the FDPIC (which is, however, neither binding nor exhaustive) only the data protection law of Argentina covers personal data pertaining to legal entities as well (regarding legal entities domiciled in Argentina) and is thus deemed to provide an adequate level of data protection.
In the absence of legislation that guarantees adequate protection, personal data pertaining to individuals or, under current Swiss data protection law, to legal entities, may be disclosed abroad only if at least one of the following conditions is fulfilled:

Sufficient safeguards, such as data transfer agreements, or other contractual clauses, ensure an adequate level of protection abroad. Under the current DPA, data transfer agreements or other contractual clauses must be notified and submitted for approval to the FDPIC whereas mere information will suffice if model clauses acknowledged by the FDPIC are used, e.g. such as the EU Standard Contractual Clauses ("SCC") with the necessary amendments for Switzerland. On June&nbsp;4, 2021, the European Commission has issued new SCC. According to the FDPIC, these new SCC can also be used to safeguard cross-border data transfers from Switzerland to countries without an adequate level of data protection, provided they are (slightly) amended to comply with the DPA. "Old" safeguards based on the former SCC may, as of October 2021, no longer be used for new data transfers. For existing data transfers put in place before October 2021, they may still be used, provided there are no substantial changes to the data transfers in question, until the end of 2022. As of January&nbsp;1, 2023, they will have to be replaced by safeguards based on the new SCC, with the necessary amendments for Switzerland. Under the revised DPA, the FDPIC will not have to be notified about the implementation of SCC anymore, to the extent he has previously approved, issued or recognized the corresponding model clauses. Safeguards based on the new EU SCC (amended for Switzerland) will thus not have to be notified anymore under the revised DPA.
Binding corporate rules that ensure an adequate level of data protection in cross-border data flows within a single legal entity or a group of affiliated companies. Such rules must be notified to the FDPIC.
The data subject consents to the particular data export (consent must be given for each individual case or, according to legal doctrine and practice, for a number of cases under the same specific circumstances, eg, data export for certain specifically defined purposes; in contrast, a generic consent which does not further specify the circumstances under which data is disclosed is not sufficient).&nbsp;The revised DPA provides that the consent must be explicit.
The processing is directly connected with the conclusion or performance of a contract with the data subject.
The disclosure is essential in order to safeguard an overriding public interest or for the establishment, exercise or enforcement of legal rights before the courts (the revised DPA extends the derogations to include the establishment, exercise or enforcement of legal rights before other competent foreign authorities, i.e. not necessarily courts).
The disclosure is required in order to protect the life or the physical integrity of the data subject (or, under the revised DPA, of a third party).
The data subject has made the personal data publicly accessible and has not expressly prohibited its processing.

Under the current DPA, only the violation of the notification obligation relating to safeguards for cross-border transfers is subject to sanctions, whereas under the revised DPA, violations of the obligations regarding cross-border transfers of personal data themselves will be subject to sanctions.
Regarding cross-border data transfers to the US, it is to be noted that the Swiss-US Privacy Shield is no longer considered a sufficient measure: According to the FDPIC's position paper of September 8, 2020, the Swiss-US Privacy Shield regime does not provide an adequate level of protection for data transfers from Switzerland to the US pursuant to the DPA. The FDPIC has thus followed the ECJ decision (regarding the inadequacy of the EU-US Privacy Shield) for the Swiss-US Privacy Shield as well.Last modified 31 Dec 2021
				
			