Legal bases for collection and processing
The collection, use or disclosure of Personal Data requires consent of the data subject unless other legal bases for processing apply. These include, among others things, the performance of contract or legal obligations, or by legitimate interest of the Data Controller. The legal bases of processing Personal Data and Sensitive Personal Data are different. Due to the sensitive nature of Sensitive Personal Data, explicit consent is required for its collection, use and disclosure without relying on the other legal bases set out in the PDPA (such as vital interest, public health interest and preventive medicine where consent cannot be obtained). The Regulator is expected to provide guidance on the scope of consent and exemptions once established.
The request for consent must be: (i) explicitly made in writing or via electronic means; (ii) clearly separated from other messages; (iii) delivered in a format which is easily accessible and understandable using language that is easy to understand; and (iv) the message should not be misleading or cause data subjects to misunderstand the purpose of collection. The Data Controller must also ensure that the consent is freely given and not conditional on entering into a contract.&nbsp; The Regulator can "require the Data Controllers to request consent from the data subject in accordance with the form and statement prescribed by the Committee". However, in practice, requiring compliance through a prescribed form may prove challenging, given that Data Controllers may develop their own mechanisms for gaining and assessing consent.
Data subjects have the right to refuse to consent, and the right to withdraw any consent they have given, at any time. Following any such refusal or withdrawal of consent, Data Controllers should be wary of proceeding with the proposed data processing activity.&nbsp;
Notice
Data Controllers must give notice to the data subjects that Personal Data or Sensitive Personal Data is being collected, prior to or at the time of collection, regardless of whether consent or other legal bases of processing apply. The privacy notice must contain particulars prescribed by the PDPA, including categories of persons or entities to whom the collected Personal Data may be disclosed to and the purpose of collection.Last modified 13 Jan 2022
				
			