On 28 May 2019, the Personal Data Protection Act ("PDPA") became law in Thailand. There was an original one-year grace period for the formation of the Personal Data Protection Committee and the issuance of subordinate regulations, as well as for organisations to become compliant with the PDPA. However, on 21 May 2020, the Royal Decree Establishing Organisations and Businesses that the Personal Data Controllers are Exempted from the Applicability of the PDPA B.E. 2563 (2020) ("Royal Decree") was published in the Royal Gazette, which effectively extended the implementation of the key provisions of the PDPA&nbsp;until 31 May 2021. On 8 May 2021, an amendment to the Royal Decree was published in the Royal Gazette (Royal Decree No.2), which postpone the full enforcement of the PDPA for another year, making the PDPA fully enforceable from 1 June 2022 onwards.&nbsp;
The Ministry of Digital Economy and Society ("MDES") has requested for the extension/postponement of the full enforcement of the PDPA, citing that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on organisations in Thailand, more specifically the MDES recognised that it would be too onerous for business operators (especially SMEs) to comply with the requirements under the PDPA, on top of dealing with the COVID-19 situation. Therefore, the extension/postponement was for the benefit of the business operators.
Public hearings have been held by the MDES, since the end of last year and throughout this year, in relation to the issuance of the subordinate regulations of the PDPA. However, as of present, no subordinate regulations have been issued as the Personal Data Protection Committee is in the process of being established.
Key principles under the PDPA are highly influenced by the EU General Data Protection Regulation (often referred to as GDPR) regime, but with some key local differences. The PDPA acknowledges individual data subjects' right to control how their personal data is collected, stored, processed and disseminated by data controllers, provides lawful bases for processing of personal data as well as prescribes the duties and responsibilities of data controllers and processors. Whilst Thailand has adapted several concepts from the GDPR, there are still some unique national perspectives in the provisions of privacy notice and data subject rights, notably as regards consent. The data protection obligations under the PDPA generally apply to all organisations that collect, use or disclose personal data in Thailand or of Thai residents, regardless of whether they are formed or recognised under Thai law, and whether they are resident or have a business presence in Thailand. This extraterritorial scope of the PDPA represents a significant expansion of Thailand's data protection obligations to cover all processing activities relating to Thailand-based data subjects.
Data controllers are permitted to continue to process personal data collected before 1 June 2022 if the purpose for which the personal data was collected remains the same. However, data controllers must publicise a consent withdrawal method and notify the data subjects of the same so that data subjects have the option to withdraw their consent/opt-out.&nbsp; However, if a data controller uses or discloses personal data beyond the original purpose for which the data subjects had previously given consent, further specific consent is required for each separate purpose.Last modified 13 Jan 2022
				
			