The collection and further processing of personal data has to be legitimate and legally grounded, meaning pursuant to the data subject's consent or as specifically provided by law.
Under the DP Law, there are a few instances where a data subject's personal data may be processed without the data subject’s consent (for example, when the processing is necessary for fulfilment of the data controller's legal obligations or for the performance of an agreement concluded between a data controller and data subject) (“Exceptional Cases”).
Apart from the Exceptional Cases, prior informed consent from data subjects is generally required to collect and process personal data, meaning that any request for consent has to contain all the information on the particular processing which is explicitly prescribed by the DP Law (for example, the data subject must be notified of the purpose and legal grounds for the processing, information on other recipients of the data in cases when the data is disclosed to entities other than the data controller and information on the statutory rights of the data subjects in relation to the respective processing, etc.).
Although consent is necessary, it does not automatically mean that any processing, to which a data subject has consented will be regarded by the DPA as compliant with the DP Law. There are also other conditions which must be met under the DP Law (eg, the purpose must be legitimate and clearly determined and the type and scope of processed data must be proportionate to the respective purpose).
In addition to written consent, the DP Law explicitly introduces other forms of consent, such as online consent, oral consent or consent by other clear affirmative action provided that the controller is able to demonstrate that the data subject has indeed consented.
The conditions for obtaining consent have become much stricter under the DP Law than compared to the previous legislation. Similar to the GDPR, consent must be freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous. For example, there is a presumption that consent will not be valid unless separate consents are obtained for different processing operations, where appropriate; and the request for consent—when presented in a written document—must be clearly distinguishable from all other matters, using clear and plain language (meaning catch-all clauses will not be valid). Further, consent will not be considered freely given if the performance of a contract is conditional on the consent to the processing of personal data that is not necessary for its performance.
In addition, one important novelty introduced by the DP Law (and similar to the GDPR), is that it does not apply only to the processing of data carried out by Serbian controllers and processors, but also to the processing of data by controllers and processors based outside of Serbia whose processing activities relate to the offering of goods or services (even if offered for free) or monitoring the behavior of Serbian data subjects within Serbia. As a result, a number of these controllers and processors will need to appoint representatives in Serbia for correspondence with the DPA and the data subjects on all issues related to processing.Last modified 17 Jan 2022
				
			