The DPA is responsible for the enforcement of the DP Law. Namely, the DPA is authorized and obliged to monitor whether the law is implemented and it conducts such monitoring both on its own accord and based on any complaints it receives. If it establishes, when performing the respective monitoring, that a particular person / entity which processes personal data has acted in contravention to the statutory rules on processing, the DPA shall issue a warning to the particular data controller. It may also issue a decision by which it can, among other things:

Order the data controller to eliminate the existing irregularities within a certain period of time.
Temporarily forbid particular processing.
Order deletion of the data collected without a legal ground.

The DPA's decision cannot be appealed, but an administrative dispute can be initiated against the respective decision before a competent Serbian court.
Depending on the gravity of the particular misconduct and the data controller's behavior with respect to the same, the DPA can initiate an offence proceeding against the respective data controller before the competent court. The offences and sanctions for such are explicitly prescribed by the DP Law. The respective sanctions are fines up to EUR 17,000 for a legal entity and up to EUR 1,275 for a responsible person in a legal entity. Additionally, the DPA is now also able to directly fine controllers and processors in certain situations, with fines in the amount of EUR 850. Prior to the adoption of the DP Law, only the Court of Offences was entitled to impose fines.
Criminal liability is also a possibility since the Serbian Criminal Code prescribes a criminal offence of unauthorized collection of personal data. The prescribed sanctions are a fine (of an amount to be determined by the court) or imprisonment of up to one year. Both natural persons and legal entities can be subject to the respective liability.
Formally speaking, under the Law on Administrative Procedure ('Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia', nos. 18/2016 and 95/2018), the DPA is also authorized to enforce its orders by threatening a company with a fine of up to 10% of its annual income in Serbia in case it fails to comply with the order. This is a relatively new option for Serbian authorities that has not yet been tested in practice, to the best of our knowledge.Last modified 17 Jan 2022
				
			