Definition of personal data
The term “personal data” is defined in PECA 2016 in Section 2(xviii) as ““identity information” means an information which may authenticate or identify an individual or an information system and enable access to any data or information system.”
“Data” in PECA 2016 is defined in Section 2(xiii) as ““data” includes content data and traffic data.”
The use of the word ‘include’ in the abovementioned definition of ‘data’ is indicative of the fact that the legislators intended for the definition of ‘data’ to include content data and traffic data in addition to what the typical dictionary meaning and definition of the word ‘data’ is.
Hence, identity information means any piece of information that is capable of authenticating or identifying an individual and enable access to any piece of information that may indirectly assist in authenticating or identifying an individual.
On the other hand, the PDPB defines “personal data” as any information that relates directly or indirectly to a data subject, who is identified or identifiable from that information or from that and other information in the possession of a data controller, including any sensitive personal data. Provided that anonymized, encrypted or pseudonymized data which is incapable of identifying an individual is not personal data.
For the purpose of clarity, “data subject” under the PDPB means a natural person who is the subject of the personal data, whereas “data controller” means a natural or legal person or the government, who either alone or jointly has the authority to make a decision on the collection, obtaining, usage or disclosure of personal data.
In addition, the PDPB defines “anonymized data” as information which does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person or to personal data rendered anonymous in such a manner that the data subject is not or no longer identifiable. The PDPB defines “pseudonymisation” as the processing of personal data in such a manner that the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organizational measures to ensure that the personal data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person.
It must be noted, however, that the PDPB is yet to be promulgated into law and therefore the content of the promulgated legislation may differ from the consultation draft.
Definition of sensitive personal data
PECA 2016 does not differentiate between the terms “personal data” and “sensitive personal data”, and therefore a piece of information that is considered as “sensitive personal data” shall be covered under PECA 2016 if the same is capable of being classified as “identity information” under the aforementioned legislation.
The PDPB however specifically provides a definition of “sensitive personal data” to mean and include data relating to access control (username and/or password), financial information such as bank account, credit card, debit card, or other payment instruments, and, passports, biometric data, and physical, psychological, and mental health conditions, medical records, and any detail pertaining to an individual’s ethnicity, religious beliefs, or any other information for the purposes of the PDPB and rules made thereunder.
It must be noted, however, that the PDPB is yet to be promulgated into law and therefore the content of the promulgated legislation may differ from the consultation draft.Last modified 1 Feb 2021
				
			