Following the adoption of the Law on Personal Data, a number of amendments aimed at enforcing data protection rules, were introduced into the Code on Administrative Liability and Criminal Code.
Currently, under the Code of Administrative Liability illegal collection, systematization, storage, modification, addition, use, provision, dissemination, transfer, depersonalization and destruction of personal data leads to the imposition of a fine on citizens for up to 5 base calculation values (‘BCV’) (approx. USD 125) and on officials – for up to 10 BCU (approx. USD 250).
Repeated violation of data protection rules can lead to criminal liability. Under the Criminal Code illegal processing of personal data leads to the fine for up to 50 BCU (approx. USD 1,250) or deprivation of a certain right for up to 3 years or correctional labour for up to 2 years.
Along with the above, following the latest amendments introduced into the Code on Administrative Liability and Criminal Code, starting from 30 January 2022 penalties for violations of the Law on Personal Data shall increase as follows:

administrative liability for illegal processing of personal data, as well as non-compliance with the localization requirement will lead to imposition of an administrative fine on citizens in the amount of 7 BCV (approx. USD 175) and on officials – in the amount of 50 BCV (approx. USD 1,250).
criminal liability for repeated violations of data protections rules committed after the imposition of an administrative fine will be punished by the fine in the amount from 100 BCV to 150 BCV (approx. from USD 2,500 to USD 3,750), or deprivation of a certain right for up to 3 years, or correctional labour for up to 2 years.

Furthermore, under Resolution No. 707, non-compliance with localization requirement leads to inclusion of an owner / operator of personal data into the Register of Infringers of the Rights of Personal Data Subjects and blocking access to the information resources (web-sites) of an owner / operator of personal data in Uzbekistan.
Apart from the above, the State Personalization Centre can issue binding orders to legal entities and individuals on elimination of violations of data protection requirements.Last modified 21 Feb 2022
				
			