The Law on Personal Data requires a personal data database to be registered with the State Registry of Personal Databases maintained by the State Personalization Centre. The registration should represent a simple notification with the State Personalization Centre.
The registration is performed by an owner / operator of personal database by way of notification, i.e. by approaching the Sate Personalization Centre in person or via its website (Government registry for personal databases).
The registration procedure for personal database is mainly set forth by the Regulation on the State Register of Personal Databases, approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 71 dated 8 February 2020 (“Regulation No. 71”).
Under Regulation No. 71, to register a personal database, an owner / operator of personal data is required to fill and submit the application as per the prescribed form to the State Personalization Centre. In its turn, State Personalization Centre shall review the submitted application within 15 days from the date of its receipt. Based on the results of such review, the State Personalization Centre either agrees or refuses to register the database. In case of a positive decision, the State Personalization Centre issues a certificate on registration of a personal database to an owner / operator of personal data.
The registration is not required for databases containing personal data:

relating to participants / members of a public association or religious organization and processed accordingly by a public association or religious organization, provided that personal data will not be distributed or disclosed to third parties;
made by the subject of personal data publicly available;
that constitutes only last name, first name and patronymic of the subject of personal data;
necessary for the purposes of a single access authorization of the subject of personal data to the territory where the owner and / or operator is located, or for other similar purposes;
included in personal data information systems with the status of state automatized information systems;
processed without the use of automation technology;
processed in accordance with labor laws.
Last modified 21 Feb 2022
				
			