Under the DPL, controllers must notify the data subject and the Data Protection Authority in case of a data breach. The Data Protection Authority reserves the right to inform the public about the breach if it deems necessary.
While there is no specific time frame stipulated in the DPL, with the decision numbered 2019/10, which was published on February 15 2019, the Data Protection Authority stipulated the procedure for breach notifications, which can be found online.
Notification to the Data Protection Authority
Pursuant to Decision 2019/10, data controllers are required to notify the Data Protection Authority within 72 hours of becoming aware of a breach.
In cases where the notification cannot be sent within 72 hours, the causes for the delay must be sent as well.
Further, with the Decision 2019/10, the Data Protection Authority published the Data Breach Notification Form, which can be accessed here.
For all data breach notifications sent to the Data Protection Authority, the Data Breach Notification Form must be used. If it is not possible to fill out all of the information in the Data Breach Notification Form, a partially filled form may be sent to the Data Protection Authority. Therefore, gradual breach notification is possible.
The data breach notification sent to the Data Protection Authority can be sent via e-mail by sending the Data Breach Notification Form to [email&#160;protected] with the subject “Kişisel veri ihlali bildirimi”&nbsp;or via the Data Protection Authority’s module at https://ihlalbildirim.kvkk.gov.tr/.
Alternatively, the form can be sent by post to the Data Protection Authority’s address.
Notification to Data Subjects
There is no clear time frame stipulated for notification to data subjects. The DPL and the Decision 2019/10 require the data subjects to be notified “as soon as possible”. Notifications can be sent to data subjects directly if the data controller has their contact information. If not, any other appropriate way can be used, such as announcing the breach in data controller’s website.
Other requirements
Pursuant to Decision 2019/10, data controllers are required to prepare a “Data Breach Response Plan” which should specify who, within the organization, should be contacted in the event of a data breach. This person will be the primary person responsible for assessing the consequences of such a breach.
Further, there is a requirement to retain the records regarding (i) information on the data security breach, (ii) impacts of the breach, and (iii) measures taken, and to make these available for a possible assessment by the DPA.Last modified 13 Jan 2022
				
			