The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two year transition period, became directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union on 25 May 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by the GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behavior" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behavior takes place within the EU.The new Slovenian Data Protection Act (ZVOP-2) that will implement certain aspects of the GDPR has not been adopted, but is – as of January 2022 – still in the legislative process.
The current draft mostly follows the GDPR and only amends a few aspects, mostly of a systemic and procedural nature and adds some provisions in areas where GDPR allows to do so. Following some concerns expressed from academia and other stakeholders on the previous version, the draft has undergone several revisions. The current draft consequently brings a better alignment of the proposal with the provisions of the GDPR. Despite the initial intention that ZVOP-2 will implement both (i) the Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA, and (ii) the GDPR, it is now clear that ZVOP-2 will only serve as an implementing tool with regard to the GPDR.
With respect to the implementation of the Directive 2016/680, Slovenian legislator has enacted a specific legal act, namely the Slovenian Act on the Protection of Personal Data in the Area of Treatment of Criminal Offences (Zakon o varstvu osebnih podatkov na področju obravnavanja kaznivih dejanj, Official Gazette no. 177/20; ZVOPOKD) which has entered into force on 31 December 2020.