Enforcement of the GDPR is the prerogative of data protection regulators, known as supervisory authorities (for example, the Cnil in France or the ICO in the UK). The European Data Protection Board (the replacement for the so-called Article 29 Working Party) is comprised of delegates from the supervisory authorities, and monitors the application of the GDPR across the EU, issuing guidelines to encourage consistent interpretation of the Regulation.
The GDPR creates the concept of "lead supervisory authority". Where there is cross-border processing of personal data (ie, processing taking place in establishments of a controller or processor in multiple Member States, or taking place in a single establishment of a controller or processor but affecting data subjects in multiple Member States), then the starting point for enforcement is that controllers and processors are regulated by and answer to the supervisory authority for their main or single establishment, the so-called "lead supervisory authority" (Article 56(1)).
However, the lead supervisory authority is required to cooperate with all other "concerned" authorities, and a supervisory authority in another Member State may enforce where infringements occur on its territory or substantially affect data subjects only in its territory (Article 56(2)).
The concept of lead supervisory authority is therefore of somewhat limited help to multinationals.The Data Protection Authority (Icelandic: ‘Persónuvernd’) is the supervisory authority in Iceland for the purposes of Article 51 of the GDPR.
Contact details: Persónuvernd&nbsp;– The Icelandic Data Protection Authority Rauðarárstígur 10, 105 Reykjavík, Iceland.Tel. +354 510-9600e-mail:&nbsp;[email&#160;protected]www.personuvernd.is
The Board of Directors and employees of the Data Protection Authority have an obligation of confidentiality in accordance with Chapter X of the Icelandic Administrative Procedures Act no. 37/1993. The same applies to others who work on behalf of the Authority.