Definition of personal data
There is no single, pervasive definition of personal data in Vietnam, but the concept of personal information, definition thereof and its variations can be found in the various laws, regulations and guidance that comprise the data protection framework in Vietnam. In summary, personal information is generally defined as information associated with the identification of a specific person, e.g. full names, date of birth, profession, title, contact addresses, email addresses, telephone numbers, ID numbers, passport numbers.
Definition of sensitive personal data
Currently, there is no particular definition of ‘sensitive personal data’ specified in the laws of Vietnam, except for highly controlled industries such as banking and finance.
However, under the Draft PDPD, ‘personal data’ is proposed to be defined as data about individuals or relating to the identification or ability to identify a particular individual. Personal data would be categorized into two groups: (a) basic personal data, and (b) sensitive personal data:

Basic personal data is defined to include: (i) surname, middle name, birth name, alias (if any); (ii) date of birth; (iii) date of death or date of going missing; (iv) blood type and gender; (v) place of birth, place of birth registration, permanent residence, current residence, hometown, contact address, email address; (vi) education; (vii) ethnicity; (viii) nationality; (ix) phone number; (x) ID card number, passport number, citizen identification number, driver's license number, plate number, personal tax identification number, social insurance number; (xi) marital status; and (xii) data reflecting online activities or activity history.
Sensitive personal data is defined to include: (i) personal data on political and religious views; (ii) personal health data, i.e. information related to the physical or mental health status of the data subject collected and identified during the process of registration or provision of medical services; (iii) personal genetic data, i.e. information relating to inherited or acquired genetic characteristics of each individual; (iv) personal biometric data, i.e. information about physical and biological characteristics of each individual; (v) personal data on gender status, i.e. information about people identified as male, female, gender neutral, androgynous, or having both masculine and feminine characteristics or self-identifying a different gender from the gender identified at birth; (vi) personal data about life and sexual orientation; (vii) personal data about criminals and criminal acts collected and stored by law enforcement agencies; (viii) personal financial data, i.e. information used to identify an account, card or payment instrument provided by a financial institution to a data subject or information about the relationship between a financial institution, original financial data and data subjects, including records, financial status, credit history, and income level; (ix) personal location data, i.e. information about the individual's previous and current physical location; (x) personal data about social relationships; and (xi) other personal data as specified by law to be special and subject to confidentiality protection.
Last modified 10 Jan 2022
				
			