Organizations must take necessary managerial or technical measures to ensure that the personal information shall not be lost, stolen, disclosed, modified or destroyed. Remedial measures must be taken immediately if personal information is being or is likely to be disclosed or destroyed.
Indeed, generally, the data controller shall classify information based on its secrecy in order to take appropriate protection measures; and agencies and organizations that use classified and unclassified information in activities within their fields have to develop regulations and procedures for processing information, and determine contents and methods of recording authorized accesses to classified information.
In which:

Personal information protection policies to be developed and published by traders and organizations collecting and using the consumers’ personal information on E-commerce websites must provide the purpose of collection; scope of use; storage period; organizations and persons authorized to access to such personal information; address of data controller, including way of contact for the consumers to ask about the collection and processing information related to them; methods and tools for data subjects to access and modify their personal information on the E-commerce system of the data controller.
The above contents must be clearly displayed for the consumers before or at the time of information collecting. The language is Vietnamese. The contents are clear and understandable. The font size of the text is at least 12. The paper background and ink colour used in the terms must contrast.
If the information collection is done through E-commerce website of the data controller, the personal information protection policies must be made ​​public in a conspicuous place on the website.
The traders, organizations or individuals that own E-commerce websites with online payment functions must publish on their website policies on security of customer’s payment information.
Last modified 10 Jan 2022
				
			