In general, if a data controller wishes to share, disclose or otherwise transfer an individual’s personal information to a third party (including group companies), the data controller they must inform the data subjects and obtain prior explicit consent from such data subjects. In particular, the traders or organizations collecting and using the consumer’s personal information on an E-commerce website must have specific mechanisms for the information subjects may choose the permission or refusal of using their personal information in the cases of using personal information to send advertisements and introduce products and other commercial information.
In cases of cross-border transfers, the data exporter / importer does not need to obtain authorization from or make a filing with the Vietnamese regulators, or notify the supervisory authority before carrying out any automatic processing operation or set of such operations, including a transfer of personal information from Vietnam to a foreign country or an international organization. There are exceptions for the transfer of information that is classified as being a State secret.
In addition to the above requirements, it is worth noting that data localization is an increasing trend in Vietnam, which is provided in certain legal documents, e.g.:

According to Circular 24, electronic general information pages and social networks as entities licensed in Vietnam must use at least one domain name “.vn” and store information in servers identified by IP addresses in Vietnam.
The Cybersecurity Law requires that domestic or foreign cyberspace service providers carrying out activities of collecting, exploiting / using, analysing and processing data being personal information, data about service users' relationships and data generated by service users in Vietnam must store such data in Vietnam for a specified period to be stipulated by the Government. In particular, according to Article 26 of the Draft Cybersecurity Decree, domestic and foreign enterprises providing telecoms and online services to customers in Vietnam may be required to locally store certain customer-related data in Vietnam for a certain period prescribed by law if the authority alerts them that their services/online platforms have been used to commit violations of Vietnam’s laws but such online service providers fail to remedy the situation upon the request of the authority. According to the latest version of the Draft Cybersecurity Decree, the organizations which could be subject to the foregoing data localization requirements only include those engaging in the following services: (i) telecommunications; (ii) data storage and sharing in cyberspace; (iii) supply of national or international domains to service users in Vietnam; (iv) E-commerce; (v) online payment; (vi) intermediary payment; (vii) transport connection via cyberspace; (viii) social networking and social media; (ix) online electronic games; and (x) providing, managing or operating other information in cyberspace in the form of messages, phone calls, video calls, email or online chats.&nbsp;As of January 2022, the Draft Cybersecurity Decree has not yet been finalized. It is anticipated that the Draft Cybersecurity Decree might be finalized and take effect within 2022, at the same time as the Draft PDPD.
The Draft PDPD also suggests imposing restrictions on cross-border data transfer (including registration of transferring personal data from Vietnam to foreign countries). However, details of most provisions under the Outline (including cross-border data registration) have not yet been fully developed. There have been no further developments on this version of the Outline and/or the Draft PDPD since December 2019. The MPS and the Government have not set out any specific timeline to promulgate the Draft PDPD.
The Draft PDPD also suggests imposing restrictions on cross-border data transfer (including registration of transferring personal data from Vietnam to foreign countries). In particular, according to the Draft PDPD, subject to a specific exemption and prior approval from the Personal Data Protection Commission (“PDPC”), before transferring personal data of Vietnamese citizens out of Vietnam, the following four conditions must be fulfilled: (i) consent must be obtained from the data subjects; (ii) the original data must be stored in Vietnam; (iii) the data transferor must have proof that the recipient country has personal data protection at a level equal to or higher than the level specified in the Draft PDPD; and (iv) a written approval for transfer must be obtained from the PDPC via registration procedures. Moreover, the Draft PDPD also requires a personal data controller/processor that transfers data abroad to build a system to store data transfer history for three years.
Last modified 10 Jan 2022
				
			