The GDPR contains a general requirement for a personal data breach to be notified by the controller to its supervisory authority, and for more serious breaches to also be notified to affected data subjects. A "personal data breach" is a wide concept, defined as any "breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed" (Article 4).
The controller must notify a breach to the supervisory authority without undue delay, and where feasible, not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, unless the controller determines that the breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. When the personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to natural persons, the controller is also required to notify the affected data subjects without undue delay (Article 34).
Where the breach occurs at the level of the processor, it is required to notify the controller without undue delay upon becoming aware of the breach (Article 33(2)).
The notification to the supervisory authority must include where possible the categories and approximate numbers of individuals and records concerned, the name of the organization’s data protection officer or other contact, the likely consequences of the breach and the measures taken to mitigate harm (Article 33(3)).
Controllers are also required to keep a record of all data breaches (Article 33(5)) (whether or not notified to the supervisory authority) and permit audits of the record by the supervisory authority.In Finland the general breach notification procedure follows the rules set by GDPR.
However, certain special national legislation does include additional requirements on breach notifications. The Act on Electronic Communication Services establishes an obligation for telecommunications operators to notify their subscribers, users and the Finnish Transport and Communications Authority (‘Traficom’) of significant information security violations or threats and of anything else that prevents or significantly interferes with communication services. In addition, under the Act on Electronic Communication Services, domain name registrars shall notify Traficom without undue delay of significant violations of information security in its domain name services and of anything that essentially prevents or disturbs such services.
The Act on Strong Electronic Identification and Electronic Signatures (2009/617) (Laki vahvasta sähköisestä tunnistamisesta ja sähköisistä luottamuspalveluista) also states that an electronic identification service provider shall notify service providers using its services, identification device holders as well as Traficom of severe risks and threats to its data security.