The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.The Act on Electronic Communication Services regulates direct marketing by electronic means in Finland. The Data Protection Ombudsman is the supervising authority also in compliance issues with the Act on Electronic Communications Services’ provisions concerning direct marketing.
Direct marketing to natural persons is only allowed by means of automated calling systems, facsimile machines, or email, text, voice, sound or image messages and only if the natural person has given his / her prior consent to it. Direct marketing using other means is allowed if the natural person has not specifically forbidden it. If, however, a service provider receives an email address, number or other contact information in relation to the sale of product or service, the service provider may normally use this contact information to directly market the service providers own products or services belonging to the same product group or that are otherwise similar to the natural person in question. The natural person must be able to easily and at no charge unsubscribe from or prohibit any direct marketing and the service provider must clearly inform the natural person of that possibility.
A service provider may use direct marketing with legal persons (businesses) unless they have specifically prohibited it. As with natural persons, legal persons must also be able to easily and at no charge unsubscribe from/prohibit any direct marketing and the service provider must clearly inform the legal person of that possibility. In addition, telecommunications operators and corporate or association subscribers are entitled, at a user’s request, to prevent the reception of direct marketing.
The Data Protection Ombudsman and the Finnish Customer Marketing Association have given their interpretations on B2B direct marketing using a legal person’s general contact information, such as an email address (e.g. [email&#160;protected]). If the B2B direct marketing is sent to a legal person’s employee’s personal work email ([email&#160;protected]), the person’s prior consent is required unless the marketed product or service is substantially related to the person’s work duties based on the person’s job description.
Email, text, voice, sound or image message sent for the purpose of direct marketing must be clearly and unmistakably be recognized as direct marketing. It is forbidden to send such a direct marketing message that:

disguises or conceals the identity of the sender on whose behalf the communication is made;
is without a valid address to which the recipient may send a request that such communications be ended;
solicits recipients to visit websites that contravene with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act 20.1.1978/38 (Kuluttajansuojalaki).

If any processing of personal data is involved in the electronic direct marketing, the provisions of the applicable data protection laws (such as the Finnish Data Protection Act and the GDPR) will also apply.