The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.Finland has passed a supplementary implementation act of the GDPR, the Data Protection Act of Finland (Tietosuojalaki), which entered into force on January 1, 2019.
Other key Finnish laws concerning data privacy and protection are: the Act on Electronic Communication Services 917/2014 (Laki sähköisen viestinnän palveluista) of January 1, 2015, which aims to, inter alia, ensure the confidentiality of electronic communication and the protection of privacy; the Act on the Protection of Privacy in Working Life 759/2004 (‘Working Life Act’) (Laki yksityisyyden suojasta työelämässä), which aims to promote the protection of privacy and other rights safeguarding the privacy in working life, and; the Act on the Processing of Personal Data in Criminal Cases and in connection with Maintaining National Security 1054/2018 (Laki henkilötietojen käsittelystä rikosasioissa ja kansallisen turvallisuuden ylläpitämisen yhteydessä), which entered into force on January 1, 2019 along with the Data Protection Act.
The Working Life Act includes some specific provisions on privacy issues relating to employment and work environments such as right to monitor employees’ email communication. The protection of employees’ privacy has traditionally been strict in Finland and Finland uses the national leeway provided in the GDPR with regard to processing of personal data in the context of employment and maintains the specific law concerning privacy in working life.