The Act on Electronic Communication Services 917/2014 (Laki sähköisen viestinnän palveluista) regulates online privacy matters such as the use of cookies and location data.
Cookies
A service provider is allowed to save cookies and other data in a user’s terminal device, as well as use such data, only with the consent of the user. The service provider must also give the user clear and complete information on the purposes of use of cookies.
However, the above restrictions do not apply to use of cookies only for the purpose of enabling the transmission of messages in communications networks or which is necessary for the service provider to provide a service that the subscriber or user has specifically requested.
In April 2021, Helsinki Administrative Court ruled in its decision that the competent supervisory authority in cookie consent issues is Transport and Communications Agency Traficom, not the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. However, the Office of Data Protection Ombudsman remains competent supervisory authority in other cookie matters.
Traficom published in September 2021 a guideline “Instructions for service providers” updating its instructions on cookie implementation on consent collection. For consent to meet the requirements set in the GDPR, users must have the opportunity to choose whether to accept or reject the terms offered. Consent can be given in a variety of ways, as long as it clearly indicates that the data subject accepts the proposal for the processing of their personal data. Valid consent cannot be given through silence, pre-ticked boxes or inactivity. Refusing and withdrawing consent must be as easy as giving consent. The controller must also be able to demonstrate the consent afterwards.
Location Data
The location data associated with a natural person can be processed for the purpose of offering and using added value services, if;

the user or subscriber, whose data is in question, has given his / her consent;
if the consent is otherwise clear from the context; or
is otherwise provided by law.

In general, location data may only be processed to the extent necessary for the purpose of processing and it may not limit the privacy any more than absolutely necessary.
The added value service provider shall ensure that:

the user or subscriber located has easy and constant access to specific and accurate information on his / her location data processed, purpose and duration of its use and if the location data will be disclosed to a third party for the purpose of providing the services:
the above mentioned information is available and accessible to the user or subscriber prior him / her giving his/her consent;
the user or subscriber has the possibility to easily and at no separate charge cancel the consent and ban the processing of his / her location data (if technically feasible).

The user or subscriber is entitled to receive the location data and other traffic data showing the location of his/her terminal device from the added value service provider or the communications provider at any time.Last modified 21 Feb 2022
				
			