The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
The Law does not contain explicit provisions with respect to electronic marketing. However, Article L. 34-5 of the French Postal and Electronic Communications Code regulates electronic marketing in France. The CNIL has issued guidelines on the basis of this provision.
The CNIL distinguishes between B2B and B2C relationships. In any event, all electronic marketing messages must specify the name of the advertiser and allow the recipient to object to the receipt of similar messages in the future.
Electronic marketing to consumers (B2C)
Electronic marketing activities are authorised provided that the recipient has given consent at the time of collection of his / her email address.
This principle does not apply when:

the concerned individual is already a customer of the company and if the marketing messages sent pertain to products or services similar to those already provided by the company, or
the marketing messages are not commercial in nature.

In any event the concerned individual, at the time of collection of his / her email address, must be informed that it will be used for electronic marketing activities, and be able to easily and freely object to such use.
Electronic marketing to professionals (B2B)
Electronic marketing activities are authorized provided that the recipient has been, at the time of collection of his / her email address:

informed that it will be used for electronic marketing activities, and
able to easily and freely object to such use.

The message sent must relate to the concerned individual’s professional activity. Please note that email addresses such as [email&#160;protected] are not subject to the requirements of prior consent and the right to object.Last modified 12 Jan 2021
				
			