The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.France updated Law No. 78-17 of January 6, 1978 on information technology, data files and civil liberties (the “Law”) to GDPR &nbsp;with the enactment of (i) Law No. 2018-493 of June 20, 2018 on the protection of personal data, and (ii) Order No. 2018-1125 of December 12, 2018, adopted pursuant to Article 32 of Law No. 2018-493, updates the Law and other French laws relating to personal data protection in order to “simplify the implementation and make the necessary formal corrections to ensure consistency with EU data protection law”. France domestic data protection legislation was further completed with the adoption of Decree No. 2019-536, adopted for the application of the Law (the “Decree”). The Decree clarifies procedural rules of the French data protection authority, including its control and sanctions, and further specifies data subject rights.
Territorial Scope
As of today, Article 3 of the Law provides that it applies when (i) the data controller or data processor is established in France (whether or not the processing takes place in France) or (ii) the targeted data subjects reside in France.