Cookies
The EU Cookie Directive has been implemented in the Law. It states that any subscriber or user of electronic communications services must be fully and clearly informed by the data controller or its representative of:

the purpose of any cookie (ie, any means of accessing or storing information on the subscriber’s / user’s device, eg, when visiting a website, reading an email, installing or using software or an app), and
the means of refusing cookies,

unless the subscriber / user has already been so informed.
Cookies are lawfully deployed if the subscriber / user has expressly consented after having received information. Valid consent can be expressed via browser settings if the user can choose the cookies he / she accepts and for which purpose.
However, the foregoing provisions do not apply:

to cookies the sole purpose of which is to allow or facilitate electronic communication by a user, or
if the cookie is strictly necessary to provide online communication services specifically requested by the user.

Location and traffic data
The Postal and Electronic Communications Code deals with the collection and processing of location and traffic data by electronic communication service providers (CSPs).
All traffic data held by a CSP must be erased or anonymised. However, traffic data may be retained, for example:

for the purpose of finding, observing and prosecuting criminal offences
for the purpose of billing and payment of electronic communications services, or
for the CSP’s marketing of its own communication services, provided the user has given consent thereto

Subject to exceptions (observing and prosecuting criminal offences; billing and payment of electronic communications services), location data may be used in very limited circumstances, for example:

during the communication, for the proper routing of such communication, and
where the subscriber has given informed consent, in which case the location data may be processed and stored after the communication has ended. Consent can be revoked free of charge at any time.
Cookies
The French Data Protection Supervisory Authority (CNIL) replaced its 2013 guidelines regarding cookies and trackers, which were no more compliant with the GDPR, by revised guidelines. Following the adoption of a version of its guidelines on cookies and other trackers on 4 July 2019, which have been partially annulled by a decision from the French highest administrative Court, the Conseil d’Etat, on 19 June 2020 , the CNIL has adopted revised guidelines and the final version of its recommendations on the practical procedures for collecting consent concerning cookies and other trackers. The CNIL’s revised guidelines, adopted by way of deliberation n°2020-091 of September 17th, 2020 are based on Article 82 of the Data Protection Act (“Loi Informatique et Libertés”) implementing Article 5 (3) of EU directive “ePrivacy”, into French law.
While the Revised Guidelines provide the CNIL’s guidance on how to read the relevant provisions of the French Data Protection Act, which governs the use of cookies and other trackers in France, the Recommendations provide practical guidance and examples to help professionals navigate the rules applicable to cookies and other trackers and comply with the requirements of Article 82 of the French Data Protection Act. These two documents constitute “soft law” and are not binding, but provide strong references for organizations to anticipate how the CNIL may conduct its compliance investigations.
Regarding consent, the CNIL has now specified that consent must be:

unambigous: to align with the&nbsp;guidelines on consent issued by the Article 29 Working Party, the CNIL repeals its previous position according to which scrolling down, browsing or swiping through a website or app was considered as an acceptable expression of consent to cookies and allowed for cookies to be placed. Therefore, for the CNIL, continuing to navigate on a website or using an application is no more acceptable to evidence a consent to cookies. The absence of action from the user (i.e., no choice from the user) can no longer be construed as a valid consent but should rather be construed as refusal. This operates a shift from “soft opt-in” to active consent. The revised guidelines also outlines that pre-ticked boxes does not meet the GDPR standard of consent;
freely given: the data subject must be able to exercise freely his / her choice. The CNIL has revised (albeit subtlety) its previous positioning regarding “cookie walls” (the practice of subjecting prior access to a website or application to the acceptance of cookies) – where the CNIL considered that consent could never be freely given when collected using cookie walls, the revised guidelines now specify that cookie walls are likely to hinder freely given consent;
specific: consent must be tailored to each purpose. Therefore acceptance of the general terms and conditions as a whole (“bundled” consent) does not constitute valid consent;
informed: information to data subjects must be easily understandable by any of them. Information must be given in plain language. The use of complex technical or legal terms does not meet the requirement of prior information. Such information must at least include (i) the identity of the data controller(s) implementing the trackers (ii) a thorough list of the purpose(s) of the reading or writing operations (iii) the means available to consent or object to the use of cookies (iv) the consequences of accepting or refusing the use of cookies and (v) the right to withdraw consent;
evidenced:&nbsp;all organizations that use cookies must implement appropriate mechanisms that allow them to demonstrate, at all times, that they have validly obtained consent from users. the revised guidelines specifically provide that users choices, be it consent or refusal, must be (i) clearly presented to users, notably as regards the available means to exercise such choice, (ii) collected and clearly evidenced (the recommendations give examples of how to ensure such evidence through the use of a consent management platform, screen capture, etc.) and (iii) recorded by data controllers, for an appropriate duration during which they would not ask the users again for their consent. Such duration may vary depending on the nature of the site or application concerned. According to the Recommendations, a good practice in that respect is 6 months – at the expiry of that term, controllers could ask users again to consent (or refuse) to the use of cookies and trackers; and
revocable:&nbsp;organizations are encouraged to put in place user-friendly solutions to allow users to withdraw their consent as easily as they gave it. The CNIL highlights the fact that means to refuse cookies and trackers must be “as easy” as means available to accept use thereof. As a result, users must not be subjected to complex procedures for refusing cookies and trackers and withdraw their consent, which they must be able to do at any time. To that end, the CNIL provides practical examples and good practices in the Recommendations, from the use of a “reject all” button to the availability of a visible “cookies” icon enabling users to parameter their choices and withdraw their consent.&nbsp;

As far as data retention is concerned, cookies validity period remains 13 months while information collected via the trackers, for the purpose of audience measurement, can be retained for 25 months.
The CNIL has granted&nbsp;six months&nbsp;to allow the organizations to become compliant with these new guidelines, which will end in March 2021. However, during this transition period, the CNIL will not accept as a valid consent the continuation of browsing. In the same manner, the other requirements (such as the prohibition to install cookies before such acceptance is given, the possibility to withdraw the consent, mandatory information, etc.) will still be subject to the CNIL’s control and sanction.