Each controller or processor is required to appoint a data protection officer if one of the following conditions are met:

it is a public authority;
its core activities consist of processing operations which, by virtue of their nature, scope or purposes, require regular and systemic monitoring of data subjects on a large scale; or
its core activities consist of processing sensitive personal data on a large scale.

Groups of undertakings are permitted to appoint a single data protection officer with responsibility for multiple legal entities (Article 37(2)), provided that the data protection officer is easily accessible from each establishment (meaning that larger corporate groups may find it difficult in practice to operate with a single data protection officer).
DPOs must have "expert knowledge" (Article 37(5)) of data protection law and practices, though it is possible to outsource the DPO role to a service provider (Article 37(6)).
Controllers and processors are required to ensure that the DPO is involved "properly and in a timely manner in all issues which relate to the protection of personal data" (Article 38(1)), and the DPO must directly report to the highest management level, must not be told what to do in the exercise of his or her tasks and must not be dismissed or penalized for performing those tasks (Article 38(3)).
The specific tasks of the DPO, set out in GDPR, include (Article 39):

to inform and advise on compliance with GDPR and other Union and Member State data protection laws;
to monitor compliance with the law and with the internal policies of the organization including assigning responsibilities, awareness raising and training staff;
to advise and monitor data protection impact assessments where requested; and
to cooperate and act as point of contact with the supervisory authority.
The DSG contains in its Section 5 some additional regulation in respect to the rights and obligations of the DPO. Thereunder, the DPO and all persons working for the DPO are obliged to retain confidentiality regarding the identity of the persons that have approached the data protection officer as well as regarding all the circumstances that could reveal the identity of such persons.
Under certain circumstances, the DPO and their assistant personnel have the right to refuse testimony regarding the data obtained in their capacity as data protection officer, if a person employed in a position subject to the data protection officer's supervision is entitled to such right and to the extent that person has exercised such right. All files and other documents of the data protection officer which are subject to this statutory right to remain silent in the aforementioned extent cannot be lawfully seized.
Further regulations in Section 5 concern the DPOs of public organizations.