"Personal data" is defined as "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person" (Article 4). A low bar is set for "identifiable" – if the natural person can be identified using “all means reasonably likely to be used” (Recital 26) the information is personal data. A name is not necessary either – any identifier will do, such as an identification number, phone number, location data or other factors which may identify that natural person.
Online identifiers are expressly referred to in Recital 30, with IP addresses, cookies and RFID tags listed as examples.
The GDPR creates more restrictive rules for the processing of "special categories" (Article 9) of personal data (including data relating to race, religion, sexual life, data pertaining to health, genetics and biometrics) and personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences (Article 10).
The GDPR concerns the " processing" of personal data. Processing has a broad meaning, and includes any set of operations performed on data, including mere storage, hosting, consultation or deletion.
Personal data may be processed by either a "controller" or a "processor". The controller is the decision maker, the person who "alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data" (Article 4). The processor "processes personal data on behalf of the controller", acting on the instructions of the controller. In contrast to former legislation, the GDPR imposes direct obligations on both the controller and the processor, although fewer obligations are imposed on the processor.
The "data subject" is a living, natural person whose personal data are processed by either a controller or a processor.The DSG does not include any additional definitions or derogations to the GDPR. However, Section 1 DSG, which provides a constitutional (human) right to data privacy, does not use the definition of "data subject" of the GDPR, but rather uses the term "everyone" which is currently interpreted to include legal entities and other organizations too. Consequently, the constitutional (human) right to data privacy, as well as some basic data subject rights, as regulated in Section 1 DSG, also apply to legal entities and other organizations.