The GDPR applies to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve use of personal data ( eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most relevant legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR apply, and marketing consent forms will need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State, provides for specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained). The ePrivacy Directive is yet to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen. In the meantime, Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
The GDPR or DSG do not specifically address (electronic) marketing, however, the use of personal data for marketing purposes is clearly within their scope. It is arguable that the processing of personal data of the existing customers within the scope of the business is permissible for marketing purposes, and this has become common practice in Austria. For persons who are not yet customers, the consent of the data subjects is generally required.
Electronic marketing is also regulated by the Austrian Telecommunications Act (Telekommunikationsgesetz 2021, 'TKG'). Pursuant to the TKG the sending of electronic messages without prior consent of the recipient is unlawful, if the sending is for direct marketing purposes. No consent is required if the data has been obtained in the course of the sale of goods or provision of services, occurs for the same or similar goods or services, the recipient is able to decline easily and with no costs for the use of his or her personal data and the recipient has not previously declared, by requesting to be entered on to the relevant list (maintained by the Austrian Regulatory Authority for Broadcasting and Telecommunications (RTR)), that they do not want to be contacted.The GDPR implementation Acts do not provide any amendments or derogations in respect of electronic marketing. However, electronic marketing was and still is separately regulated in Austria in the Telecommunications Act (Telekommunikationsgesetz 2021, TKG), Section 174, which implements the ePrivacy Directive.
Pursuant to the TKG the sending of electronic messages without prior consent of the recipient is unlawful insofar as the message is sent for direct marketing purposes. Explicit consent is not required where (1) the data have been obtained in the context of the sale of goods or provision of services; (2) the electronic marketing concerns same or similar goods or services of the sender; (3), the recipient is able to decline easily and with no costs for the use of his or her personal data for electronic marketing, both when the data are collected as well as with each message received ('opt-out'), and the recipient has not previously declared, by requesting to be entered on to the relevant lists (the "Robinson lists", maintained by the Austrian Regulatory Authority for Broadcasting and Telecommunications (RTR) and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce (WKO)), that he or she does not want to be contacted.