Fines
The GDPR empowers supervisory authorities to impose fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or EUR 20 million (whichever is higher).
It is the intention of the European Commission that fines should, where appropriate, be imposed by reference to the revenue of an economic undertaking rather than the revenues of the relevant controller or processor. Recital 150 of the GDPR states that 'undertaking' should be understood in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements between undertakings and abuse of a dominant position. The Treaty does not define ‘undertaking’ and the extensive case-law is not entirely straightforward, with decisions often turning on the specific facts of each case. However, in many competition cases, group companies have been regarded as part of the same undertaking. Under EU case-law regarding competition, there is also precedent for regulators to impose joint and several liability on parent companies for fines imposed on those subsidiaries in some circumstances (broadly where there is participation or control), so-called "look through" liability. It is not yet clear whether this will translate directly to GDPR enforcement.
Fines are split into two broad categories.&nbsp;The highest fines (Article 83(5)) of up to EUR 20 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is higher, apply to infringement of:

the basic principles for processing including conditions for consent;
data subjects’ rights;
international transfer restrictions;
any obligations imposed by Member State law for special cases&nbsp;such as processing employee data; and
certain orders of a supervisory authority.

The lower category of fines (Article 83(4)) of up to EUR 10 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 2% of total worldwide turnover of the preceding year, whichever is the higher, apply to infringement of:

obligations of controllers and processors, including security and data breach notification obligations;
obligations of certification bodies; and
obligations of a monitoring body.

Supervisory authorities are not required to impose fines but must ensure in each case that the sanctions imposed are effective, proportionate and dissuasive (Article 83(1)).
Fines can be imposed in combination with other sanctions.
Investigative and corrective powers
Supervisory authorities also enjoy broad investigative and corrective powers (Article 58) including the power to undertake on-site data protection audits and the power to issue public warnings, reprimands and orders to carry out specific remediation activities.
Right to claim compensation
The GDPR provides for specific provision for individuals to bring private claims against controllers and processors:

any person who has suffered "material or non-material damage" because of a breach of the GDPR has the right to receive compensation (Article 82(1)) from the controller or processor. The inclusion of “non-material” damage means that individuals will be able to claim compensation for distress even where they are not able to prove financial loss.&nbsp;These claims can be made at any competent court.
Data subjects have the right to mandate a consumer protection body to exercise rights and bring claims on their behalf (Article 80).

Furthermore, individuals may lodge a complaint to a supervisory authority (Article 77).
All natural and legal persons, including individuals, controllers and processors, have the right to an effective judicial remedy against a decision of a supervisory authority concerning them or for failing to make a decision (Article 78).
Data subjects enjoy the right to an effective legal remedy against a controller or processor (Article 79).In Austria, the Austrian Data Protection Authority is responsible for the enforcement of the GDPR. Pursuant to Section 11 DSG, the Austrian Data Protection Authority is obliged to impose administrative fines pursuant to the Article 83 GDPR in an adequate way. The Authority should in particular also apply the measures pursuant to Art 58 GDPR in case of first time breaches, in particular the possibility to issue warnings instead of imposing fines.
The fines under the GDPR are imposed under Austrian administrative criminal law. The Austrian administrative criminal law in general does not allow authorities to impose fines against a legal entity, but provides only for the liability of natural persons; in cases where violations are committed by a legal entity, the liable persons are either statutory representatives (directors) or persons appointed as responsible persons for adherence with specific administrative laws. However, the DSG provides a possibility to impose fines against legal entities, in the following cases:

A violation of GDPR or DSG is committed by a natural person who has power (1) to represent the legal entity or to make decisions on behalf of the legal entity; or (2) has supervisory powers in the legal entity and has committed this offence either alone or as a part of an organ of the legal entity (eg, management board)
An employee of the legal entity violates the provisions of GDPR or DSG and the violation was possible due to insufficient supervision or control by a person by a natural person that has power to (1) represent the legal entity; (2) or to make decisions on the behalf of the legal entity; or (3) has supervisory powers in the legal entity, provided the violation is not subject to criminal law.

The possibility to impose fines against a legal entity or a responsible natural person, as appropriate. If the fine is imposed against a legal entity, the Authority is required to identify a particular natural person whose violations are to be attributed to said entity; the responsible natural person may not be fined for the same breach.
Public bodies cannot be fined for violations of GDPR or DSG.