The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.In Austria, the laws concerning the implementation of the GDPR have been adopted gradually. In summer 2017, the existing Data Protection Act 2000 (Datenschutzgesetz 2000) was amended by the Data Protection Amendment Act 2018 (Datenschutz-Anpassungsgesetz 2018) which constituted the first implementation of various regulations related to GDPR, and was intended to enter into force simultaneously with GDPR. The 'Data Protection Act' (Datenschutzgesetz, DSG) has considerably amended the Data Protection Act 2000. In addition to the GDPR, it is now the central piece of legislation in Austria regulating data privacy. The Privacy Deregulation Act 2018 (Datenschutz-Deregulierungs-Gesetz 2018) further amended the DSG. The DSG, as amended by the Privacy Deregulation Act 2018, came into force on May 25, 2018 and is now the applicable regulation in Austria. The DSG also includes the implementation of the Directive (EU) 2016/680.
In addition to the DSG, further amendments to other statutory laws were adopted in order to implement the GDPR (mostly to adapt to the terminology of the GDPR). These amendments were included in the General Data Protection Adjustment Act (Materien-Datenschutz-Anpassungsgesetz 2018) and the research-sector specific Data Protection Adjustment Act&nbsp;– Science and Research (Datenschutz- Anpassungsgesetz 2018 – Wissenschaft und Forschung – WFDSAG 2018). Further amendments in other laws have been made by the Second General Data Protection Adjustment Act, which was passed in June 2018 and applies retroactively. Finally, ordinances were also passed regulating respectively the cases where a data privacy impact assessment is obligatory (the Obligatory DPIA Ordinance - DSFA-V) and the exemptions from the obligation to conduct a data privacy impact assessment (the DPIA Exemptions Ordinance - DSFA-AV).