Online privacy is specifically regulated by the TKG.
Traffic data
Traffic Data held by communications services providers (CSPs) must be erased or anonymized when it is no longer necessary for the purpose of the transmission of a communication. However, Traffic Data can be retained for purposes of invoicing the services. In such a case, if the invoice has been paid and no appeal has been lodged with the CSP within three months the Traffic Data must be erased or anonymized.
Location data
Location Data may only be processed for emergency services and with consent of the user. Even in case of consent, the user must be able to prohibit the processing by simple means, for free of charge and for a certain time period.
Cookie compliance
The relevant section of the TKG stipulates that a user must give informed consent for the storage of personal data, which includes a cookie. The user has to be aware of the fact that consent for the storage or processing of personal data is given, as well as the details of the data to be stored or processed, and has to agree actively. Therefore obtaining consent via some form of pop-up or click through agreement seems advisable. Consent by way of browser settings, or a pre-selected checkbox etc. is probably not sufficient in this respect.If for technical reasons the short term storage of content data is necessary, such data must be deleted immediately thereafter.Online privacy is still specifically regulated by the TKG, and the GDPR implementation acts have introduced only minor amendments thereto. There are no regulations regarding online privacy in the DSG itself.
Media privilege
In an effort to balance freedom of speech and freedom of information publishers as well as owners and employees of media outlets are granted privileges regarding the processing of data for journalistic purposes (Section 9 DSG). Certain Chapters of the GDPR are not applicable to such processings, specifically:

Chapter II (Principles);
Chapter III (Rights of the data subject);
Chapter IV (Controller and Processor);
Chapter V (Transfers of personal data to third countries or international organizations);
Chapter VI (Independent supervisory authorities);
Chapter VII (Cooperation and consistency); and
Chapter IX (Provisions relating to specific processing situations).

The same exceptions (with the slight difference of Article 5 of Chapter II remaining applicable) are stipulated if data is processed for scientific, artistic or literary purposes.