The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. In February 2021, the Council of the European Union agreed on a draft Regulation, opening the trilogue phase. It is uncertain how long this phase will last and the ePrivacy Regulation is not expected to enter into force before 2023, therefore it will not be applicable until at least 2025. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.As established under Law 41/2004, of 18 August (as amended), sending unrequested communications for direct marketing purposes to natural persons is subject to express prior consent of the subscriber or user (that is, the opt-in rule applies). This includes use of automated calling and communications that do not rely on human intervention automatic call devices, fax or electronic mail, including SMS, EMS, MMS and other similar applications.
As regards direct marketing communications to legal persons, these are allowed insofar as opt-out is offered. Legal persons may refuse future communications and request registration in the non-subscribers list.
This does not prevent the supplier that has obtained its clients’ data and contacts in connection with the sale of a product or service to use such data for direct marketing of its own products or services or products or services similar to the ones provided.
Nevertheless, the supplier shall ensure that these clients are given the opportunity to object to the use of such data, free of charge, clearly and explicitly, and in an easy manner, at the time of the respective collection, and on each message (when the client did not opt-out initially upon collection of the data).
Moreover, sending electronic mail for direct marketing purposes via email where the identity of the sender is disguised or concealed, as well as where there is no valid means of contact to send a request to stop these communications or encouraging recipients to visit websites that violate these rules is strictly forbidden.