The LGPD creates the position of Chief of Data Processing, which is the data protection officer (DPO) in charge of data processing operations. The DPO is responsible for the following:

Accepting complaints and communications from data subjects and the National Authority
Providing guidance to employees about good practices and carrying out other duties as determined by the controller or set forth in complementary rules

The LGPD provides the National Data Protection Authority the power to further establish supplementary rules concerning the definition and the duties of the DPO, including scenarios in which the appointment of such person may be waived, according to the nature and the size of the entity or the volume of data processing operations.
Currently, and until the ANPD provides more detailed instructions on the subject, it is assumed that every company (public or private) should appoint a DPO. This general obligation extends to all types of activities and volumes of data processing subject to the LGPD (as set out in the “Guidance on Processing Agents and DPO” published by ANPD in May 2021). In any case, all companies should monitor this space for future guidance.
On August 30, 2021, the ANPD issued a Public Consultation related to a Resolution with special rules on the application of the LGPD to small businesses, startups, and innovative companies. This Resolution includes exemptions and flexibilities, such as the exemption of these companies from appointing a DPO. However, this is still a draft Resolution and needs to be further confirmed and published.
There is no prohibition against companies using an external DPO or against DPOs performing the same function for more than one company simultaneously. Likewise, the LGPD does not distinguish whether the DPO must be an individual or a legal entity.
Due to the absence of legal or regulatory requirements, there is no need to communicate or record the identity and contact information of the DPO with the ANPD.Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			