After several discussions and postponements, the Brazilian General Data Protection Law (LGPD), Federal Law no. 13,709/2018, entered into force on September 18, 2020. The LGPD is Brazil’s first comprehensive data protection regulation, and it broadly aligns with the EU General Data Protection Act (GDPR).
Although the law has been in force since 2020, the penalties issued by the LGPD only became enforceable on August 1, 2021. However, public authorities (such as consumer protection bodies and public prosecutors) and data subjects could enforce their rights under the LGPD as of September 18, 2020.
Before the enactment of the LGPD, data privacy regulations in Brazil consisted of various provisions spread across Brazilian legislation. For example, Federal Law no. 12,965/2014 and its regulating Decree no. 8,771/16 (together, the Brazilian Internet Act) imposed requirements regarding security and the processing of personal data and other obligations on service providers, networks, and applications providers, and provided rights for Internet users.
The following laws also contain general provisions and principles applicable to data protection:

The Federal Constitution
The Brazilian Civil Code, and
Laws and regulations that address

Certain types of relationships (g.,&nbsp;Consumer Protection Code [1]&nbsp;and&nbsp;employment laws);
Regulated sectors (g., financial institutions, health industry, or telecommunications); and
Particular professional activities (g., medicine and law).



Additionally, there are laws&nbsp;that regulate the processing and safeguarding of documents and information handled by governmental entities and public bodies.
The LGPD applies to any processing operation carried out by a natural person or a legal entity (of public or private law), irrespective of (1) the means used for the processing, (2) the country in which its headquarter is located, or (3) the country where the data are located, provided that:

The processing operation is carried out in Brazil;
The purpose of the processing activity is to offer or provide goods or services, or the processing of data of individuals located in Brazil; or
The personal data was collected in Brazil.

On the other hand, the law does not apply to the processing of personal data that is:

Carried out by a natural person exclusively for private and non-economic purposes;
Performed for journalistic, artistic, or academic purposes;
Carried out for purposes of public safety, national security, and defense or activities of investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses (which will be the subject of a specific law);
Originated outside the Brazilian territory and are not the object of communication; or
Shared data use with Brazilian processing agents or the object of international transfer of data with another country that is not the country of origin, provided that the country of origin offers a level of personal data protection adequate to that established in the Brazilian law.

In addition, on October 20, 2021, the Brazilian Senate unanimously approved the Proposed Amendment to the Constitution (“PEC”) no. 17/2019, which aims to include in the Federal Constitution the protection of personal data, including in digital media, as a fundamental right, and to refer privately to the Union (federal government) the responsibility to legislate on this subject. However, this amendment will only be valid when the National Congress enacts the PEC, which is still pending.Footnotes
Due to a broad interpretation established in case law, practically every Internet user is considered a 'consumer' for&nbsp;the purposes of the consumer protection.
