Definition of personal data
‘Personal data’ is any information concerning an identified or identifiable individual.
Definition of sensitive personal data
‘Sensitive personal data’ is personal data that affects the most intimate areas of the data subject’s life, which if misused, may lead to discrimination or entail a serious risk to the data subject. In particular, the definition includes data that may reveal any of the following:

Racial or ethnic origin
Past or present health conditions
Genetic information
Religious, philosophical or moral beliefs
Union affiliation
Political views
Sexual orientation
Pictures and videos
Fingerprints
Geolocation
Banking information
Signature

Other key definitions
'ARCO Rights' refer to the access, ratification, cancelation and opposition rights of data subjects, with respect to their personal data.
'Controller' or 'data controller' means the individual or private entity makes decisions regarding the processing of personal data.
'Data subject' means the individual to which the personal data belongs.
'Guidelines' means the guidelines issued by INAI, regarding the compliance with the principles and duties of the Data Privacy Law.
'INAI' refers to the National Institute of Transparency, Access to Information and Protection of Personal Data (Instituto Nacional de Transparencia, Acceso a la Información y Protección de Datos Personales).
'Privacy notice' means the physical or electronic document, or document generated in any other form by the controller and made available to data subjects, prior to the processing of their personal data. There are three forms of a privacy notice: comprehensive or full-form, simplified, and short.
'Processing' means any collection, use, disclosure or storage of personal data made through any means, including any access, handling, exploitation, transfer or disposal of personal data.
'Processor' or 'data processor' means the individual or entity that separately or jointly with others processes personal data on behalf of the controller.
'Remittance' any communication of personal data carried out between the controller and the processor, within or outside Mexican territory.
'Third Party' means an individual or entity, whether national or foreigner, that is not the data subject, the controller or the processor of the personal data.
'Transfer' means any communication of personal data carried out between the controller and any third party.Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			