The US regulates marketing communications extensively, including email and text message marketing, as well as telemarketing and fax marketing.
Email
The CAN-SPAM Act is a federal law that applies labeling and opt-out requirements to all commercial email messages. CAN-SPAM generally allows a company to send commercial emails to any recipient, provided the recipient has not opted out of receiving such emails from the sender, the email identifies the sender and the sender’s contact information, and the email contains instructions on how the recipient can easily and without cost opt out of future commercial emails from the sender. The FTC and state attorneys general, as well as ISPs and corporate email systems can sue violators. Knowingly falsifying the origin or routing of a commercial email message is a federal crime.
Text Messages
Federal and state regulations apply to the sending of marketing text messages to individuals. Express consent is required to send text messages to individuals, and, for marketing text messages, express written consent is required (electronic written consent is sufficient, but verbal consent is not). The applicable regulations also specify the form of consent. This is a significant class action risk area, and any text messaging (marketing or informational) program needs to be carefully reviewed for strict compliance with legal requirements.
Calls to Wireless Phone Numbers
Similar to text messages, federal and state regulations apply to marketing calls to wireless phone numbers. Prior express consent is required to place phone calls to wireless numbers using any autodialing equipment, and, for marketing calls, express written consent is required (electronic written consent is sufficient, but verbal consent is not). The applicable regulations also specify the form of consent. This is a significant class action risk area, and any campaign or program that involves calls (marketing or informational) to phone numbers that may be wireless phone numbers needs to be carefully reviewed for strict compliance with legal requirements. The definition of autodialing equipment is generally considered to, broadly, include any telephone system that is capable of (whether or not used or configured storing or producing telephone numbers to be called, using a random or sequential number generator.
Telemarketing
Beyond the rules applicable to text messaging and calling to wireless phone numbers, there are federal and state telemarketing laws as well. Federal telemarketing laws apply to most telemarketing calls and programs, and state telemarketing law will apply to telemarketing calls placed to or from within that particular state. As a result, most telemarketing calls are governed by federal law, as well as the law of one or more states. Telemarketing rules vary by state, and address many different aspects of telemarketing, such as calling time restrictions, do-not-call registries, opt-out requests, mandatory disclosures, requirements for completing a sale, executing a contract or collecting payment during the call, further restrictions on the use of auto-dialers and pre-recorded messages, and record-keeping requirements. Many states also require telemarketers to register or obtain a license to place telemarketing calls.
Fax Marketing
Federal law and regulations generally prohibit the sending of unsolicited advertising by fax without prior, express consent. Violations of the law are subject to civil actions and have been the subject of numerous class action lawsuits. The law exempts faxes to recipients that have an established business relationship with the company on whose behalf the fax is sent, as long as the recipient has not&nbsp;opted out of receiving fax advertisements and has provided their fax number ‘voluntarily,’ a concept which the law specifically defines.
The law also requires that each fax advertisement contain specific information, including:

A ‘clear and conspicuous’ opt-out method on the first page of the fax
A statement that the recipient may make a request to the sender not to send any future faxes and that failure to comply with the request within 30 days is unlawful, and
A telephone number, fax number, and cost-free mechanism to opt-out of faxes, which permit consumers to make opt-out requests 24 hours a day, seven days a week
Violations are subject to a private right of action and statutory damages, and thus pose a risk of class action lawsuits
Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			