There is no specific federal law that&nbsp;per se&nbsp;regulates the use of cookies, web beacons and other similar tracking mechanisms. However, the state online privacy laws require notice of online tracking and of how to opt out of it.
Under California law, any company that tracks any personally identifiable information about consumers over time and across multiple websites must disclose in its privacy policy whether the company honors any ‘Do-Not-Track’ method or provides users a way to opt out of such tracking; however, the law does not mandate that companies provide consumers a ‘Do-Not-Track’ option. The same law also requires website operators to disclose in their privacy policy whether any third parties may collect any personally identifiable information about consumers on their website and across other third party websites, and prohibits the advertising of certain products, services and materials (including alcohol, tobacco, firearms, certain dietary supplements, ultraviolet tanning, tattoos, obscene matters, etc.). Further, given the CCPA’s broad definition of personal information, information collected via cookies, online, mobile and targeted ads, and other online tracking are likely to be subject to the requirements of the law.
Further, given the broad definition of personal information under the comprehensive state privacy laws, information collected via cookies and similar technologies is generally subject to the requirements of the law&nbsp;(e.g., notice and consumer rights). For example, under the CCPA a "sale" includes selling, renting, releasing, disclosing, disseminating, making available, transferring, or otherwise communicating a consumer’s personal information by one business to another business or a third party for monetary or other valuable consideration. This broad definition may sweep in certain online advertising activities -- for example, where a business permits the collection and use of information through certain third party cookies and tags on their website, in order to better target the business' ad campaigns on third party websites or in exchange for compensation from a third party ad network.
Minors
The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act and regulations (COPPA) applies to information collected automatically (eg, via cookies) from child-directed websites and online services and other websites, online services and third party ad networks or plug-ins that knowingly collect personal information online from children under 13. COPPA also regulates behavioral advertising to children under 13 as well as the collection of geolocation information, requiring prior verifiable parental consent to engage in such advertising or collection.
California law requires that operators of websites or online services that are directed to minors or that knowingly collect personally identifiable information from minors permit minors that are registered users of their sites to remove any content the minor has posted from the site or online service. The law does not give minors the right to remove information posted by third parties. Minors must be given clear notice on how to exercise their right to removal.&nbsp;Certain state privacy laws (such as the CCPA, CPA or VCDPA) also require that a business obtain explicit consent prior to selling any personal information about an individual the business has actual knowledge is under 16 years old.
Location Data
Generally, specific notice and consent in needed to collect precise&nbsp;(eg,&nbsp;mobile device) location information.Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			