Most US businesses are required to take reasonable technical, physical and organizational measures to protect the security of sensitive personal information (eg,&nbsp;health or financial information, telecommunications usage information, biometric data, or information that would require security breach notification). A few states have enacted laws imposing more specific security requirements for such data.
For example, Massachusetts has enacted regulations that apply to any company that collects or maintains sensitive personal information (eg,&nbsp;name in combination with Social Security number, driver's license, passport number, or credit card or financial account number) on Massachusetts residents. Among other things, the Massachusetts regulations require regulated entities to have a comprehensive, written information security program and set forth the minimum components of such program, including binding all service providers who touch this sensitive personal information data to protect it in accordance with the regulations. Massachusetts law includes encryption requirements on the transmission of sensitive personal information across wireless networks or beyond the logical or physical controls of an organization, as well as on sensitive personal data stored on laptops and portable storage devices.
Some states impose further security requirements on payment card data and other sensitive personal information.&nbsp;In 2019, New York passed a new law (the New York “SHEILD Act”) setting forth minimum security obligations for safeguarding private information. &nbsp;The SHIELD Act does not mandate specific safeguards but rather provides that a business will "be deemed to be in compliance" with the law if it implements a security program that includes elements set forth in the SHIELD Act.
The CCPA provides a private right of action to individuals for certain breaches of unencrypted personal information, which increases class action risks posed by data breaches.
There are also a number of other sectoral data security laws and regulations that impose specific security requirements on regulated entities – such as in the financial, insurance and health sectors. Federal financial regulators impose extensive security requirements on the financial services sector, including requirements for security audits of all service providers who receive data from financial institutions. For example, the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) regulations impose extensive cybersecurity and data security requirements on licensees of the NYDFS, which includes financial services and insurance companies. The national Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and implementing regulations require financial institutions to implement reasonable security measures.
HIPAA regulated entities are subject to much more extensive data security requirements. HIPAA security regulations apply to so-called ‘covered entities’ such as doctors, hospitals, insurers, pharmacies and other healthcare providers, as well as their ‘business associates’ which include service providers who have access to, process, store or maintain any protected health information on behalf of a covered entity. ‘Protected health information’ under HIPAA generally includes any personally identifiable information collected by or on behalf of the covered entity during the course of providing its services to individuals.
Internet of Things
California recently enacted the first US Internet of Things (IoT) legislation, effective January 1, 2020. Under SB 327, manufacturers of most IoT and Bluetooth connected devices will be required to implement reasonable security features ‘appropriate to the nature and the function of the device and the information the device may collect, contain or transmit’ and ‘designed to protect the device and any information contained therein from unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure.’Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			