In Canada there are 28 federal, provincial and territorial privacy statutes (excluding statutory torts, privacy requirements under other legislation, federal anti-spam legislation, criminal code provisions etc.) that govern the protection of personal information in the private, public and health sectors. Although each statute varies in scope, substantive requirements, remedies and enforcement provisions, they all set out a comprehensive regime for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information.
The summary below focuses on Canada’s private sector privacy statutes:

Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act ('PIPEDA')
Personal Information Protection Act (Alberta) ('PIPA Alberta')
Personal Information Protection Act (British Columbia) ('PIPA BC')
An Act Respecting the Protection of Personal Information in the Private Sector ('Quebec Privacy Act'), (collectively, 'Canadian Privacy Statutes')

We expect PIPEDA to be significantly amended or replaced by a new federal statute sometime during this session of Parliament (before October 2025). In the previous session of Parliament, the federal government introduced Bill C-11, which would have replaced PIPEDA with the Consumer Privacy Protection Act (‘CPPA’). The CPPA made it to second reading, but died on the order paper when the 2021 Federal Election was called. The CPPA would have provided additional rights to data subjects (e.g. portability of data), expanded the requirements for valid data subject consent, and set out new monetary penalties of up to 5% of annual global revenue. Bill C-11 faced significant debate, but we expect a new version of the bill to be introduced at some point during this session of Parliament as the Federal Government seeks to align Canadian privacy law with that of California and the European Union.
PIPEDA applies to all of the following:

Consumer and employee personal information practices of organizations that are deemed to be a ‘federal work, undertaking or business’ (eg, banks, telecommunications companies, airlines, railways, and other interprovincial undertakings)
Organizations who collect, use and disclose personal information in the course of a commercial activity which takes place within a province, unless the province has enacted ‘substantially similar’ legislation (PIPA BC, PIPA Alberta and the Quebec Privacy Act have been deemed ‘substantially similar’)
Inter provincial and international collection, use and disclosure of personal information in connection with commercial activity

PIPA BC, PIPA Alberta and the Quebec Privacy Act apply to both consumer and employee personal information practices of organizations within BC, Alberta and Quebec, respectively, that are not otherwise governed by PIPEDA.
The province of Quebec recently enacted a major reform of its privacy legislation with the adoption of Bill 64. Bill 64 received Royal Assent on September 22, 2021, and its various provisions will be coming into force gradually between 2022 and 2024. With Bill 64’s changes, Quebec now has a modern legal framework for privacy that resembles the European GDPR in several key areas.
&nbsp;Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			