The GDPR will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as these will involve some use of personal data (eg, an email address which includes the recipient's name). The most plausible legal bases for electronic marketing will be consent, or the legitimate interests of the controller (which is expressly referenced as an appropriate basis by Recital 47). Where consent is relied upon, the strict standards for consent under the GDPR are to be noted, and marketing consent forms will invariably need to incorporate clearly worded opt-in mechanisms (such as the ticking of an unticked consent box, or the signing of a statement, and not merely the acceptance of terms and conditions, or consent implied from conduct, such as visiting a website).
Data subjects have an unconditional right to object to (and therefore prevent) any form of direct marketing (including electronic marketing) at any time (Article 21(3)).
Specific rules on electronic marketing (including circumstances in which consent must be obtained) are to be found in Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive), as transposed into the local laws of each Member State. The ePrivacy Directive is to be replaced by a Regulation. However, it is currently uncertain when this is going to happen, as the European Commission has discarded its draft of the ePrivacy Regulation after disagreements by the Member States in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, GDPR Article 94 makes it clear that references to the repealed Directive 95/46/EC will be replaced with references to the GDPR. As such, references to the Directive 95/46/EC standard for consent in the ePrivacy Directive will be replaced with the GDPR standard for consent.
The Act will apply to most electronic marketing activities, as there is likely to be processing and use of personal data involved (eg, an email address is likely to be ‘personal data’ for the purposes of the Act).
Also, pursuant to Act&nbsp;No. XLVIII of 2008 on the Basic Requirements and Certain Restrictions of Commercial Advertising Activities, unless otherwise provided by specific other legislation, advertisements may be conveyed to natural persons by way of direct contact (hereinafter referred to as ‘direct marketing’), such as through electronic mail or equivalent individual communications only upon the express prior consent of the person to whom the advertisement is addressed. The request for the consent may not contain any advertisement, other than the name and description of the company.
The statement of consent may be made in any way or form, on condition that it contains the name of the person providing it, and – if the advertisement to which the consent pertains may be disseminated only to persons of a specific age – his place and date of birth, furthermore, any other personal data authorized for processing by the person providing the statement, including an indication that it was given freely and in possession of the necessary legal information.
The statement of consent may be withdrawn freely any time, free of charge and without any explanation. In this case all personal data of the person who has provided the statement must be promptly erased from the records and all advertisements must be stopped.
Pursuant to Act&nbsp;No. C&nbsp;of 2003 on Electronic Communications (‘EC Act’), applying automated calling system free of any human intervention, or any other automated device for initiating communication in respect of a subscriber for the purposes of direct marketing, providing information, public-opinion polling and market research shall be subject to the prior consent of the subscriber.Last modified 22 Jan 2021
				
			