The EC Act deals with the collection of location and traffic data by public electronic communications services providers ('CSPs') and use of cookies (and similar technologies).
Traffic Data
With certain special exceptions set out in the EC Act (eg, invoicing, collecting subscriber fees, law enforcement, national security and defense), traffic data relating to subscribers and users processed and stored by CSPs while providing such services must be erased or made anonymous when it is no longer needed.
CSPs may use certain traffic data as referred to in the EC Act for the provision of value added services or for marketing purposes subject to the subscriber’s or user’s prior consent, to the extent necessary for the provision of such services or for marketing purposes. CSPs shall provide the possibility for users or subscribers to withdraw their consent at any time.
Location Data
CSPs shall be authorized to process location data only upon the prior consent of the subscribers or users to whom the data are related, and only to the extent and for the duration as it is necessary for the provision of value added services.
Users and subscribers shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time.
CSPs shall be required to comply with any request for location information in connection with specific subscribers or users, if made by the investigating authority, the public prosecutor, the court or the national security service pursuant to the authorization conferred in specific other legislation, to the extent required to discharge their respective duties.
Cookie Compliance
Pursuant to the EC Act, on the electronic communication terminal equipment of a subscriber or user, information may be stored, or accessed, only upon the user’s or subscriber’s prior consent granted in possession of clear and comprehensive information, which information inter alia includes the purpose of processing.
The European Data Protection Board issued a guidance in respect of the interpretation of ‘consent’ and how this consent should be obtained in practice. This guidance shall apply to the implementation of cookies as well. General practice is that consent should be obtained by means of a cookie banner. It needs to be ensured that no cookies are set / placed prior to the declaration of consent.Last modified 22 Jan 2021
				
			