Enforcement of the GDPR is the prerogative of data protection regulators, known as supervisory authorities (for example, the Cnil in France or the ICO in the UK). The European Data Protection Board (the replacement for the so-called Article 29 Working Party) is comprised of delegates from the supervisory authorities, and monitors the application of the GDPR across the EU, issuing guidelines to encourage consistent interpretation of the Regulation.
The GDPR creates the concept of "lead supervisory authority". Where there is cross-border processing of personal data (ie, processing taking place in establishments of a controller or processor in multiple Member States, or taking place in a single establishment of a controller or processor but affecting data subjects in multiple Member States), then the starting point for enforcement is that controllers and processors are regulated by and answer to the supervisory authority for their main or single establishment, the so-called "lead supervisory authority" (Article 56(1)).
However, the lead supervisory authority is required to cooperate with all other "concerned" authorities, and a supervisory authority in another Member State may enforce where infringements occur on its territory or substantially affect data subjects only in its territory (Article 56(2)).
The concept of lead supervisory authority is therefore of somewhat limited help to multinationals.The DPA Act establishes the Data Protection Authority as the successor of the Privacy Commission which was established under the old data protection legislation. The Data Protection Authority has the competences as set out in the GDPR whenever that competence has not been explicitly assigned to another body.
The Data Protection Act appoints three more regulatory authorities at the federal level (COC1, Committee I2 and Committee P3) with varying data protection related competences next to the general Data Protection Authority. In addition, there are also regional supervisory authorities who have been entrusted mainly with the supervision of the public authorities of the regions.
The composition of the Data Protection Authority has proven controversial due to the involvement of some members in government bodies. The European Commission has warned Belgium that it would start an infringement procedure before the EU Court of Justice if the problems regarding the Data Protection Authority’s independence would not be resolved. Therefore, a legislative proposal has been introduced before the Federal parliament at the end of 2021 to amend the DPA Act by partially reforming the rules on the composition of the Data Protection Authority4.