The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.The GDPR has been integrated in Belgium through a few new laws. The 'Data Protection Act' of July 30, 2018 provides for the implementation of some of the GDPR provisions open to further definition, derogation or additional requirements. It also includes the transposition of the 2016/680 Directive regarding the processing of personal data in the criminal justice chain and the establishment of a Control body on police information (called 'COC'). Additionally, it regulates the authorities outside the scope of the EU law (including intelligence and security services).1
The Belgian Data Protection Authority, the successor of the Belgian Privacy Commission, was established by the Belgian Federal Chamber of Representatives by the Act of December 3,&nbsp;2017 ('DPA Act')2. Several other laws have also been adapted to align them with the GDPR (e.g. Video Surveillance Act).
The competent Secretary of State has announced legislative proposals for a reform of Belgian data protection law (i.e. both the Data Protection Act and DPA Act) would be introduced before the Federal parliament in the course of 2022. According to public statements made by the Secretary of State, this reform would address inter alia the functioning of the Data Protection Authority and strengthen cooperation of the Data Protection Authority with other regulators. &nbsp;