Personal Data Protection is regulated in different laws.
Constitution of the Republic of Chile, Art. 19 N° 4
The Chilean constitution establishes the individual’s right to (i) respect and protection of private life, (ii) honor of the person and his/her family, and (iii) protection of his/her personal data. Any individual who, as a result of an arbitrary or illegal act or omission, suffers a “privation, disturbance or threat” to these rights may file a Constitutional Protective Action (“Recurso de protección”).
Law 19,628/1999 'On the protection of private life', commonly referred to as 'Personal Data Protection Law' (hereinafter, the 'PDPL')
The PDPL generally defines and regulates the processing of personal data in public and private databases and is thus the primary body of rules on the processing of personal data not governed by sectoral provisions (for example contained in the laws mentioned below).
Generally, the PDPL stipulates that personal data may only be processed if the processing is (i) permitted by law (eg, labor law, health care law, etc.) or (ii) based on the data subject’s prior informed, written consent. There are only a few narrow exceptions to this principle (eg, certain publicly accessible data, or purely internal data processing for certain purposes).&nbsp;In addition, the PDPL contains special regulations on the processing of personal data relating to economic, banking, and financial obligations.
The PDPL law also provides data subjects the right to access, rectify, delete, block and object to processing of personal data in certain cases.
Decree with Force of Law N° 3/19978, 'General Law of Banks'
Article 154 of this law establishes the confidentiality of an individual’s transactions with&nbsp;and through banks. The law distinguishes transactions covered by secrecy, which in principle are subject to an absolute prohibition of disclosure, and transactions covered by reserve, which may only be disclosed where a legitimate interest exists and if it cannot be foreseen that the knowledge of the disclosed data may cause financial damage to the customer.
Law 20,575/2012 establishing the 'purpose principle' for the processing of personal data of an economic, financial, banking or commercial nature
This law establishes several rules that apply to the processing of personal data referring to financial, economic, banking or commercial information, such as:

Limited disclosures: Such data shall only be communicated to established commercial entities for the purpose of a commercial risk assessment in a credit granting process, and to entities that take part in this evaluation.
Prohibition of requesting such type of data in the context of processes for personnel selection, pre-school, school or higher education admission, emergency medical care or application for public office.
Providers of economic, financial, banking or commercial databases must have a system for recording the name of any person requesting database information, the reason, date and time of the request and the person responsible for delivering or transferring the information. Data subjects have the right to request access to their commercial information every four months and free of charge.
Providers of the database must implement the principles of legitimacy, access and objection, data quality, purpose, proportionality, transparency, non-discrimination, use limitation and security in personal data processing, and designate a contact person for data subjects.

Law 19,223/1993 regulating certain computer crimes
This law establishes criminal sanctions for certain specific conduct related to the theft, destruction, obstruction, modification and illegal access and disclosure of information contained in data processing systems.&nbsp;It does not, however, refer specifically to personal data.&nbsp;
Law 20,584/2012 regulating the rights and duties of individuals in the context of healthcare
This law sets forth that all information contained in patient files or documentations of medical treatments are sensitive data, and establishes the obligation of healthcare professionals to maintain patient data confidential and to comply with the principle of purpose limitation. This law also includes certain specific cases in which such data can be submitted, partially or totally, to the data subject and to other individuals or entities.
Bill regulating the protection and processing of personal data and creating the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data (Bulletin 11,144-07, consolidated with Bulletin 11,092-07)
This draft law aims to modernize the PDPL and adapt it to international standards.&nbsp;The most important stipulations are:

the introduction of further legal bases for the processing of personal data in addition to consent (such as performance of a contract and legitimate interest), and additional requirements for processing sensitive data, depending on the category of data concerned.
various basic principles, such as lawfulness, purpose limitation, proportionality, data quality, accountability, security, transparency and information, and confidentiality.
regulations on international data transfers.
information requirements.
special obligations when using data processors.
provisions on data protection by design and default and security measures.
reporting obligations in the event of data breaches.
introduction of the right to portability.
the creation of a data protection authority with the competence to impose administrative fines.

The bill has been under debate for some time but is currently still in the first constitutional stage in the senate. There is currently no indication when it may pass.Last modified 24 Jan 2022
				
			