If there is a Personal Data breach that compromises a Data Subject's confidentiality, security or privacy, the data Controller must, as soon as practicable in the circumstances (note that unlike the GDPR there is no hard deadline), notify the Personal Data breach to the Commissioner. Such notifications must include, at a minimum, the following information:&nbsp;

description of the nature of the Personal Data breach including where possible, the categories and approximate number of Data Subjects concerned and the categories and approximate amount of Personal Data records concerned;
the name and contact details of the DPO or other contact point where more information can be obtained;
a description of the likely consequences of the Personal Data breach; and
describe the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the Controller to address the Personal Data breach, including, where appropriate, measures to mitigate its possible adverse effects.&nbsp;

Where, and in so far as, it is not possible to provide all of the information at (a) – (d) at the same time, the information may be provided in phases, as it becomes available.
In addition, Processors must notify Controllers without undue delay after becoming aware of a Personal Data breach.
Controllers and Processors must fully co-operate with any investigation of the Commissioner in relation to a Personal Data breach. Controllers must also document in writing any Personal Data breaches, including the facts relating to the Personal Data breach, its effects and the remedial action taken. The information recorded must be sufficient to enable the Commissioner to verify compliance with the law and must be made available without delay on request.
(Article 41 DPL)
A Controller must make a notification to a Data Subject as soon as practicable in the circumstances (again, no hard deadline) where a Personal Data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the security or rights of a Data Subject. If there is an immediate risk of damage to the Data Subject, the Controller must promptly communicate with the affected Data Subject (for example, where his or her banking details are the subject of the breach).
Where a communication to the individual Data Subjects would involve disproportionate effort, a public communication or similar measure whereby the Data Subjects are informed in an “equally effective manner” will be sufficient.
Such notifications must include, at least, the information listed in (b) – (d) above, in clear and plain language. It must also, where possible, make recommendations for the Data Subject to mitigate against any&nbsp; potential adverse effects.
The Guidance to the DIFC DPL (“Guidance”) recommends that Controllers and Processors have in place an incident management policy which enables them to comply with the law in a timely fashion. It recommends clear incident classification as well as setting out the reporting requirements (including who to notify and when, with time being of the essence).
&nbsp;(Article 42 DPL)Last modified 21 Jan 2021
				
			