The collection, processing or use of personal data is permitted subject to obtaining the informed consent of the data subjects.&nbsp; Such consent should adhere to purpose, proportionality and transparency limitations. As such, consent should be obtained for specific purposes of use, the processing and use of personal data should be proportionate to those purposes, and data subjects should have the right to inspect and correct their personal information. The data subject's consent must be re‑obtained for any change in the purpose of use.
Any request for consent from a data subject to have his or her personal data stored and used within a database must be accompanied by a notice indicating:

whether there is a legal requirement to provide the information
the purpose for which the information is requested
the recipients of the data, and
the purpose(s) of use of the data.

Retaining outsourcing services for the processing of personally identifiable information is subject to the IPA's Guidelines on the Use of Outsourcing Services of Processing Personal Information (Guideline 2/2011) dated 10 June 2012 ('Outsourcing Guidelines'). The Outsourcing Guidelines include, inter olio, factors to be taken into consideration when deciding to use outsourcing services, specific provisions to be included within the data transfer agreement and data security requirements. Processing of personally identifiable information in certain sectors is subject to additional outsourcing requirements.
Furthermore, the Outsourcing Guidelines also require compliance with the Data Security Regs.
Entities subject to separate outsourcing guidelines are for example entities supervised by the Commissioner of the Capital Market, Insurance and Savings and entities supervised by the Banking Supervision Department of the Bank of Israel. On 10 September 2014, the Banking Supervision Department of the Bank of Israel issued draft guidelines regarding risk management in cloud computing services used by Israeli banking corporations. Among other various restrictions, the draft guidelines set forth an obligation on supervised entities to receive the approval of the Supervisor of Banks prior to using cloud computing services.
The general issue of privacy consideration in the use of surveillance cameras is governed by the IPA Use of Surveillance Cameras and the Footage Obtained Therein Guidelines (no. 4/2012). In 2017, the IPA published Use of Surveillance Cameras in the Workplace and in Working Relationships Guidelines (no. 5/17) specifically referring to the use of surveillance cameras in the workplace. The guidelines state that the employer's prerogative to use surveillance means in the workplace is subject to fulfillment of principals such as legitimacy, transparency, proportionality, good faith and fairness. These principles apply also to businesses required by law enforcement to place surveillance cameras on their premises. The guidelines specify the manner in which these principles should be implemented, derivative requirements and possible implications.
On December 27, 2018. The Camera Installation Law for the Protection of Toddlers in Day Care Centers for Toddlers (5779 - 2018) was published and became effective on September 1, 2020. The said law provides that the operator of a daycare center for toddlers is required (unless it falls under the exceptions under the law) to install cameras that will record during the time of which the toddlers are present, without sound. It is forbidden to view the videos, to copy them, to transfer them to another person and to make any use of them without a court order (except for the Police and the Ministry of Welfare officials for the purpose of preventing harm to toddlers that are in the daycare). No real-time viewing of the footage is permitted, and it must be deleted withing 30 days from the date of filming.
Furthermore, on March 29, 2020 its Recommendations: Privacy Aspects of Use of Drones which, recommends that the drone user take into account alternatives that will not violate the privacy of others and to activate the drone proportionately in order to minimize the scope of Personal Data collected, processed and stored. The period in which the Personal Data is retained should be limited as much as possible and for as long as the Personal Data is stored on the drone, the drone is to be kept in a physically safe location; ensure privacy by design and compliance with the PPA requirements in respect of privacy by notification, transparency and deletion of data.Last modified 23 Dec 2020
				
			