The NCC Regulations provide that no licensee shall engage in unsolicited telemarketing unless it discloses:

At the beginning of the communication, the identity of the licensee or other person on whose behalf it is made and the precise purpose of the communication
During the communication, the full price of any product or service that is the subject of the communication
That the person receiving the communication shall have an absolute right to cancel the agreement for purchase, lease or other supply of any product or service within seven (7) days of the communication, by calling a specific telephone number (without any charge, and that the Licensee shall specifically identify during the communication) unless the product or service has by that time been supplied to and used by the person receiving the communication

Licensees are required to conduct telemarketing in accordance with any “call” or “do not call’ preferences recorded by the consumer, at the time of entering into a contract for services or after, and in accordance with any other rules or guidelines issued by the Commission or any other competent authority.
Internet Service Providers (ISP)&nbsp;
The NCC Legal Guidelines for Internet Service Providers (ISP) provides that Commercial Communications ISPs must take reasonable steps to promote compliance with the following requirements for commercial email or other commercial communications transmitted using the ISP’s services:

The communication must be clearly identified as a commercial communication.
The person or entity on whose behalf the communication is being sent must be clearly identified.
The conditions to be fulfilled in order to qualify for any promotional offers, including discounts, rebates or gifts, must be clearly stated.
Promotional contests or games must be identified as such, and the rules and conditions to participate must be clearly stated.
Persons transmitting unsolicited commercial communications must take account of any written requests from recipients to be removed from mailing lists, including by means of public “opt-out registers” in which people who wish to avoid unsolicited commercial communications are identified.

Advertising
The Nigerian Code of Advertising Practice Sales Promotion and other rights and restrictions on practice provide that all advertisements and marketing communications directed at the Nigerian market using the Internet or other electronic media must comply with the following requirements:

The commercial nature of such communications must not be concealed or misleading, it should be made clear in the subject header.
Terms of the offer should be clear and devices should not be used to conceal or obscure any material factors, such as price or other sales conditions likely to influence customer decisions.
The procedure for concluding a contract should be clear.
Due recognition must be given to the standards of acceptable commercial behavior held by public groups before posting marketing communications to such groups using electronic media.
Unsolicited messages should not be sent except where there are reasonable grounds to believe that consumers who receive such communications are interested in the subject matter or offer.
All marketing communications sent via electronic media should include a clear and transparent mechanism enabling consumers to expressly opt-out from future solicitations.
Care should be taken to ensure that neither the marketing communication, or applications used to enable consumers to open marketing or advertising messages, interfere with consumers normal use of electronic media.
Customer information must not be transferred to any party except to the extent agreed with the Customer, as permitted or required by the NCC or other applicable laws or regulations.
Last modified 12 Dec 2021
				
			