NITDA is empowered to register and license Data Protection Compliance Organizations (DPCOs). On behalf of NITDA, DPCOs monitor, audit, conduct training and data protection compliance consulting to all Data Controllers as defined in the NDPR.
Since the issuance of the NDPR, NITDA has been handed supervisory and enforcement responsibilities in respect of data protection matters in Nigeria. It collaborates with security agencies such as the office of the Inspector General of Police to ensure full compliance and enforcement. Where NITDA has determined that a party is in breach of the NDPR, especially where such breach affects national security, sovereignty and cohesion, it may seek to prosecute officers of the organization as provided for in section 17(1) and (3) of the NITDA Act 2007. To do this, NITDA must seek a fiat of the Attorney General of the Federation or may file a petition with any authority in Nigeria. This may include: The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Department of State Security, Nigerian Police Force, Independent Corrupt Practices (and other related offences) Commission or the Office of National Security Adviser. NITDA has also set up an administrative redress panel to (a) investigate allegations of any breach of the provisions of the Regulation (b) invite any party to respond to allegations made against it within seven days (c) issue administrative orders to protect the subject matter of the allegation pending the outcome of investigation and conclude investigations and determine of appropriate redress within 28 working days. A breach of the NDPR is construed as a breach of the NITDA Act 2007. Any organization/entity that contravenes any of the provisions of the NDPR would be in breach and be liable to such fines, sanctions or penalties as may be determined by the Commission from time to time.
Organizations that are in breach of the NDPR requirements can face penalties that vary in amount depending on the number of data subjects affected, as follows:

if the data breach impacted more than 10,000 data subjects, the organization can be fined up to 2% of its annual revenue or 10 million Naira, whichever is greater;
if the data breach impacted less than 10,000 data subjects, the organization can be fined up to 1% of its annual revenue or 2 million Naira, whichever is greater.
Last modified 12 Dec 2021
				
			