National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) issued the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR) in 2019.It is the principal regulation and framework for data protection in Nigeria.&nbsp;
The NITDA also issued an Implementation Framework in 2020 in respect of the NDPR and Guidelines for the Management of Personal Data by Public Institutions in Nigeria to regulate personal data processing within public institutions.
Nigeria Data Protection Regulation
&nbsp;The NDPR is the first regulation of its kind governing the use of personal data in Nigeria. The personal and territorial scope of the NDPR is defined by citizenship and physical presence. It applies to residents of Nigeria, as well as Nigerian citizens abroad. The NDPR provides legal safeguards for the processing of personal data. Under the NDPR, personal data must be processed in accordance with a specific, legitimate and lawful purpose consented to by the Data Subject.
Implementation Framework for the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation
The Framework builds on the NDPR to ensure a tailored implementation of the data protection regime in Nigeria. It serves as a guide to data controllers and administrators/processors to understand the standards required for compliance within their organisations. The Framework is to be read in conjunction with the NDPR and does not supersede the NDPR.
Guidelines for the Management of Personal Data by Public Institutions in Nigeria
In 2020, NITDA issued the Guidelines for the Management of Personal Data by Public Institutions in Nigeria (the Guidelines) to regulate personal data processing within public institutions. The Guidelines apply to all public institutions (PIs) in Nigeria, including Ministries, Departments, Agencies, Institutions, Public Corporations, publicly funded ventures, and incorporated entities with government shareholding, either at the Federal, State or Local levels, that process the personal data of a data subject. The Guidelines mandate all PIs to protect personal data in any incidence of processing of such data. Processing in this context retains the same meaning it has under the NDPR. All forms of personal data of a Nigerian citizen, resident or non-Nigerian individual that has interactions with PIs, or personal data PIs have access to in furtherance of a statutory or administrative purpose, are to be protected in accordance with the NDPR or any other law or regulation in force in Nigeria.
Sectoral Laws
In addition to the principal legislation mentioned, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and various sector-specific laws make different provisions for privacy and data protection matters. These laws are examined below.
The laws
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (As Amended)
The Nigerian Constitution provides Nigerian citizens with a fundamental right to privacy. Section 37 of the Constitution guarantees privacy protections to citizens in their homes, correspondence, telephone conversations and telegraphic communications. The Constitution does not define the scope of “privacy” or contain detailed privacy provisions.
Child Rights Act 2003
The Child Rights Act 2003&nbsp;reiterates the constitutional right to privacy as relates to children. Section 8 of the Act guarantees a child’s right to privacy subject to parent or guardian rights to exercise supervision and control of their child’s conduct. Some Nigerian states have also enacted Child Rights Laws.
Consumer Code of Practice Regulations 2007 (NCC Regulations)
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) issued the NCC Regulations which requires all licensees to take reasonable steps to protect customer information against improper or accidental disclosure, and ensure that such information is securely stored and not kept longer than necessary. The NCC Regulations further prohibit the transfer of customer information to any party except to the extent agreed with the customer, as permitted or required by the NCC or other applicable laws or regulations.
Consumer Protection Framework&nbsp;2016 (Framework)
The Consumer Protection Framework 2016 was enacted pursuant to the Central Bank of Nigeria Act 2007. The Framework includes provisions that prohibit financial institutions from disclosing customers personal information. The Framework further requires that financial institutions have appropriate data protection measures and staff training programs in place to prevent unauthorized access, alteration, disclosure, accidental loss or destruction of customer data. Financial services providers must obtain written consent from consumers before personal data is shared with a third party or used for promotional offers.
Credit Reporting Act 2017
The Credit Reporting Act establishes a legal and regulatory framework for credit reporting by Credit Bureaus. Section 5 of the Credit Reporting Act requires Credit Bureaus to maintain credit information for at least 6 years from the date that such information is obtained, after which the information must be archived for a 10-year period prior to its destruction. Section 9 of the Credit Reporting Act provides the rights of data subjects (i.e. persons whose credit data are held by a Credit Bureau) to privacy, confidentiality and protection of their credit information. Section 9 further prescribes conditions under which the credit information of the data subject may be disclosed.
Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention Etc) Act 2015
The Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention Etc) Act provides a legal and regulatory framework that prohibits, prevents, detects, prosecutes and punishes cybercrimes in Nigeria. The Act requires financial institutions to retain and protect data and criminalizes the interception of electronic communications.
Freedom of Information Act, 2011 (FOI Act)
The FOI Act seeks to protect personal privacy. Section 14 of the FOI Act provides that a public institution is obliged to deny an application for information that contains personal information unless the individual involved consents to the disclosure, or where such information is publicly available. Section 16 of the FOI Act provides that a public institution may deny an application for disclosure of information that is subject to various forms of professional privilege conferred by law (such as lawyer-client privilege, health workers-client privilege, etc.).
National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) Act 2007
The NIMC Act creates the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to establish and manage a National Identity Management System (NIMS). The NIMC is responsible for enrolling citizens and legal residents, creating and operating a National Identity Database and issuing Unique National Identification Numbers to qualified citizens and legal residents. Section 26 of the NIMC Act provides that no person or corporate body shall have access to data or information in the Database with respect to a registered individual without authorization from the NIMC. The NIMC is empowered to provide a third party with information recorded in an individual’s Database entry without the individual’s consent, provided it is in the interest of National Security.
National Health Act 2014 (NHA)&nbsp;
The NH Act provides rights and obligations for health users and healthcare personnel. Under the NH Act, health establishments are required to maintain health records for every user of health services and maintain the confidentiality of such records. The NH Act further imposes restrictions on the disclosure of user information, and requires persons in charge of health establishments to set up control measures for preventing unauthorized access to information. The NH Act applies to all information relating to patient health status, treatment, admittance into a health establishment, and further applies to DNA samples collected by a health establishment.
Nigerian Communications Commission (registration of telephone subscribers) Regulation 2011&nbsp;
Section 9 and 10 of the Nigerian Communications Commission Regulation provides confidentiality for telephone subscriber&nbsp;records maintained in the NCC’s central database. The Regulation further provides telephone subscribers with a right to view and update personal information held in the NCC’s central database of a telecommunication company in camera.&nbsp;
The Data Protection Bills
Data protection/privacy is not listed as an item under any of the exclusive, concurrent or residual legislative lists provided in the Nigerian Constitution (as amended). The implication of this is that both Federal and State legislature can legislate on data protection within the country. Pursuant to this, a Federal Data Protection Bill was issued in 2019. The main objective of the Bill is to provide a structure for the protection of personal data and to regulate the processing of information relating to all individuals, irrespective of their nationality. It also seeks to protect the fundamental rights to privacy and freedoms as enshrined in the constitution. However, the status of this Bill is currently unknown as the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy recently published a request for expression of interest inviting interested law firms and data protection practitioners to submit proposals in respect of drafting a comprehensive data protection law for the Country.
In addition to the above, one state that has considered issuing its own data protection legislation is Lagos State. A data protection bill has been issued by the State House of Assembly and the primary objective of the bill is to promote the protection of personal information processed by public and private bodies in Lagos State and establish minimum requirements for the processing and protection of personal information within the state. The Lagos State Bill has passed second reading and is currently at the House Committee stage. There have been deliberations on the provisions of the bill and stakeholders have proposed changes to its provisions. The eventual state, shape and form of the different laws, if passed remains to be seen.Last modified 12 Dec 2021
				
			