Enforcement of the GDPR is the prerogative of data protection regulators, known as supervisory authorities (for example, the Cnil in France or the ICO in the UK). The European Data Protection Board (the replacement for the so-called Article 29 Working Party) is comprised of delegates from the supervisory authorities, and monitors the application of the GDPR across the EU, issuing guidelines to encourage consistent interpretation of the Regulation.
The GDPR creates the concept of "lead supervisory authority". Where there is cross-border processing of personal data (ie, processing taking place in establishments of a controller or processor in multiple Member States, or taking place in a single establishment of a controller or processor but affecting data subjects in multiple Member States), then the starting point for enforcement is that controllers and processors are regulated by and answer to the supervisory authority for their main or single establishment, the so-called "lead supervisory authority" (Article 56(1)).
However, the lead supervisory authority is required to cooperate with all other "concerned" authorities, and a supervisory authority in another Member State may enforce where infringements occur on its territory or substantially affect data subjects only in its territory (Article 56(2)).
The concept of lead supervisory authority is therefore of somewhat limited help to multinationals.The authority designated under the&nbsp;Law as being the local regulatory body for the purposes of the GDPR is the Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data in Cyprus (the “Commissioner”).
The Law affords certain powers to and imposes obligations on the Commissioner which are in addition to the GDPR, including, inter alia, the following:

Examination of complaints and providing information to the person making the complaint within 30 days of submission thereto.
The obligation to inform the data subject, the data controller and the processor of the deadlines indicated under Articles 60-66 of the GDPR.
The publication of a list of processing activities requiring the appointment of a data protection officer.
To consult specialists or the police for exercising its regulatory powers under Article 58 of the GDPR.
To enter, without giving any prior notice to the data controller or the processor or their representatives, any office, business premises or means of transport with the exception of housing premises, for inspections.
To inform the Attorney General's Office and / or the police for breaches of the GDPR and the national law giving rise to criminal liability.
To permit the combination of filing systems and to impose terms and conditions in relation thereto.
To impose terms and conditions to the exemption from the obligation of the data controller to notify data subjects for breaches of personal data as provided for in Article 23 of the GDPR.
To impose explicit restrictions on the transfer of special categories of personal data to third countries or international organizations.

Further, the Certification Body for the purposes of Article 43 of the GDPR is the Cyprus Organisation of the Promotion of Quality which is the national organization for accreditations in Cyprus operating under the Standardisation, Accreditation and Technical Notification Law (L156(I)/2002).