Part 14 of the Electronic Communications and Postal Services Law deals with the collection of location and traffic data and use of cookies (and similar technologies) by publically available electronic communication service providers.
Traffic Data
Traffic Data concerning subscribers and users, which are submitted to processing so as to establish communications and which are stored by persons, shall be erased or made anonymous at the end of a call, except:

for the purpose of subscriber billing and interconnection payments, and&nbsp;
if the subscriber or user consent that the data may be processed from a person for the purpose of commercial promotion of the services of electronic communications of the latter or for the provision of added value services. Users or subscribers have the possibility to withdraw their consent for the processing of Traffic Data at any time.

The prohibition of storage of communications and the related traffic data by persons other than the users or without their consent is not intended to prohibit any automatic, intermediate and transient storage of this information. Users or subscribers shall be given the possibility to withdraw their consent for the processing of Traffic Data at any time.
Location Data
Location Data may only be processed when made anonymous, or with the explicit consent of the users or subscribers to the extent and for the duration necessary for the provision of a value added service.
The service provider must inform the users or subscribers, prior to obtaining their consent, of the following:

type of Location Data which will be processed&nbsp;
the purpose and duration of the processing, and&nbsp;
whether the data will be transmitted to a third party for the purpose of providing the value added service.

Users or subscribers shall be given the possibility to withdraw their consent for the processing of Location Data at any time.
Cookie Compliance
The storage and use of cookies and similar technologies is permitted only if the subscriber or user concerned has been provided with clear and comprehensive information, inter alia, about the purposes of the processing, and has given his consent in accordance with the Processing of Personal Data Law.
The above shall not prevent any technical storage or access for the sole purpose of carrying out or facilitating the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network, or as strictly necessary in order to provide an information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user.
With regards to information society services, when such services are addressed to a child and provided to him / her on the basis of his / her consent – such consent is valid if he / she is at least 14 years old.Last modified 21 Feb 2022
				
			