Definition of personal data
"Personal data" is defined as "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person" (Article 4). A low bar is set for "identifiable" – if the natural person can be identified using “all means reasonably likely to be used” (Recital 26) the information is personal data. A name is not necessary either – any identifier will do, such as an identification number, phone number, location data or other factors which may identify that natural person.
Online identifiers are expressly called out in Recital 30, with IP addresses, cookies and RFID tags all listed as examples.
The GDPR creates more restrictive rules for the processing of "special categories" (Article 9) of personal data (including data relating to race, religion, sexual life, data pertaining to health, genetics and biometrics) and personal data relating to&nbsp;criminal convictions and offences&nbsp;(Article 10).
The GDPR is concerned with the "processing" of personal data. Processing has an extremely wide meaning, and includes any set of operations performed on data, including the mere storage, hosting, consultation or deletion of the data.
Personal data may be processed by either a "controller" or a "processor". The controller is the decision maker, the person who "alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data" (Article 4). The processor "processes personal data on behalf of the controller", acting on the instructions of the controller. In contrast to the previous law, the GDPR imposes direct obligations on both the controller and the processor, although fewer obligations are imposed on the processor.
The "data subject" is a living, natural person whose personal data are processed by either a controller or a processor.
"Public authority" and "public body" are expressions used in the GDPR. For the purposes of Gibraltar, the DPA04 defines them in S.9.
The DPA04 also clarifies that, where the purpose and means of processing are determined by an enactment of law, then the person on whom the obligation to process the data is imposed by the enactment is the controller.
Definition of sensitive personal data
Definition of personal data
Any information relating to a Data Subject; and a Data Subject means a natural person who is the subject of Personal Data.
Definition of special category personal data
Information about racial or ethnic origin, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, health or sex life. The DPA04 also includes a definition on criminal convictions and offences data&nbsp; to include personal data relating to the alleged commission of any offence and information on any proceedings for offences or alleged offences, the disposal of such proceedings and any sentence given.Last modified 22 Jan 2021
				
			