The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force in 2016 and, following a two year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on 25 May 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States. However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices among the Member States.
Territorial Scope
Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.
However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.
The GDPR entered into force in Gibraltar on 25 May 2018 because at the time Gibraltar was a territory within the European Union (by virtue of the accession of the United Kingdom on 1 January 1973). As such, Regulations were directly applicable in Gibraltar.
Gibraltar ceased to become a territory within the European Union on 31 January 2020 when the UK left on that date.&nbsp; However, the EU – UK Withdrawal Treaty provides for a transition period lasting until the end of 2020 (unless extended by joint agreement).&nbsp; During the transition period, EU law (including the GDPR) continues to apply directly to Gibraltar, and Gibraltar will be treated as if it were a territory within the European Union for the purposes of that law.&nbsp; Following the end of the transition period, subject to the terms of any future trade agreement reached between the EU and the UK, EU law will cease to apply in Gibraltar.&nbsp; The Gibraltar Government will implement the GDPR into Gibraltar national law (creating the “Gibraltar GDPR”), subject to a number of technical changes (e.g. to amend references to “Gibraltar” and the fact that Gibraltar is no longer a territory within the European Union) made under the Data Protection, Privacy and Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019.
Alongside the GDPR, on 25 May 2018 Gibraltar modified its existing Data Protection Act 2004 in order to supplement the GDPR &nbsp;("DPA04"). As well as containing derogations and exemptions from the position under the GDPR in certain permitted areas, the DPA04 also does the following:

Part III of the DPA04 transposes the Law Enforcement Directive ((EU) 2016/680) into Gibraltar law, creating a data protection regime specifically for law enforcement personal data processing; and
Parts V and VI set out the scope of the Data Protection Commissioner's mandate and his enforcement powers, and creates a number of criminal offences relating to personal data processing.
Last modified 22 Jan 2021
				
			