There is not a single comprehensive data protection law in the People's Republic of China (PRC). Instead, rules relating to personal information protection and data security are part of a complex framework and are found across various laws and regulations. That said, the three main pillars of the personal information protection framework in the PRC are the Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL), the Cybersecurity Law (CSL), and the Data Security Law (DSL).
On June 1, 2017, the CSL came into effect and became the first national-level law to address cybersecurity and data privacy protection. The DSL came into force on September 1, 2021, and focuses on data security across a broad category of data (not just personal information). Most significantly, the PIPL came into effect on November 1, 2021. The PIPL is the first comprehensive, national-level personal information protection law in the PRC. &nbsp;The PIPL does not replace – but instead enhances and clarifies - earlier personal information laws and regulations.
In addition to the PIPL, CSL and DSL, the following form the backbone of general personal information protection framework currently in the PRC:


The Decision on Strengthening Online Information Protection, effective from December 28, 2012 (Decision);


National Standard of Information Security Technology – Guideline for Personal Information Protection within Information System for Public and Commercial Services, effective from February 1, 2013;


The Draft Regulation of Network Data Security Management, published for consultation in November, 2021; and


The Draft Measures for Security Assessment of Cross-border Data Transfer, published for consultation in October, 2021.


In the past five years, there has also been an abundance of implementing regulations and guidelines (herein referred to as Guidelines) proposed, issued or revised to flesh out the essentials and concepts introduced under the personal information protection framework. These include, non-exhaustively:

National Standard of Information Security Technology – Personal Information Security Specification (PIS Specification), as amended and effective from October 1, 2020;
Guidelines on Internet Personal Information Security Protection, effective from April 19, 2019; and
National Standard of Information Security Technology – Guidelines on Personal Information Security Impact Assessment, effective from June 1, 2021.

The Decision has the same legal effect as law, and its purpose is to protect online information security, safeguard the lawful rights and interests of citizens, legal entities or other organizations, and ensure national security and public interests. While the PIS Specification and other Guidelines are only technical guides (covering in detail key issues such as data transfers, sensitive personal information and data subject rights), and thus not legally binding, they have historically been highly persuasive. Given the recent promulgation of the PIPL, the PIPL will now take precedence over the PIS Specification and other Guidelines. Nonetheless, the PIS Specification and the Guidelines are still useful for the purposes of supplementing legislation, especially on any part that has not been addressed by the PIPL, CSL or DSL. In addition to all of the above:

provisions found in laws such as the General Principles of Civil Law and the Tort Liability Law have generally been used to interpret data protection rights as a right of reputation or right of privacy. However, such interpretation is not explicit. Further, the PRC Civil Code, effective on January 1, 2021 also further reinforces the statutory right of privacy for individuals and establishes data protection principles; and
provisions contained in other laws and regulations may also apply depending on the industry or type of information involved (for example, personal information obtained by financial institutions and e-commerce businesses, personal information collected by &nbsp;telecom or Internet service / content providers, healthcare and genetic information, etc.). Applicability of other laws or regulations (including provincial level laws), such as the PRC Criminal Law, PRC E-Commerce Law, PRC Consumer Rights Protection Law and the new data law in Shenzhen, will invariably depend on the factual context of each case and further independent analysis is recommended.&nbsp;

Given the personal information protection framework is still evolving, and further regulations accompanying the new PIPL and DSL are anticipated to be published in the coming months, it is recommended that organizations continue to monitor the developments of the PRC data protection regulatory framework.
Extra-territorial scope
The PIPL has extra-territorial effect, and applies both to:

data processing activities within the PRC; and
processing of PRC residents’ data outside of PRC where:

for the purposes of providing products or services to PRC residents;
for analytics or evaluation of behavior of PRC residents; or
for any other reasons as required by law or regulations.&nbsp;



The PIPL applies to both the public and private sectors.Last modified 27 Jan 2022
				
			