The general compliance obligations applicable to processing of personal information under the PIPL apply to the online (and offline) environments. In addition, the PIPL imposes additional compliance obligations on organisations that fall into one of the following categories:

“important internet platform providers”;
data controllers processing data of a “large volume of users”; or
“complex businesses”.

It is still unclear which organisations would fall within these categories, but these organisations must comply with additional measures when processing personal information, namely:

set up personal information protection compliance mechanisms;
set up external independent data protection organisations to supervise data protection mechanisms;
establish platform regulations;
establish and publish processing obligations and processing rules that regulate products and service providers in an open and fair manner;
stop the provision of products or service providers if they violate the law or regulations as regards processing of personal information; and
publish from time to time social responsibility reports as regards processing of personal information.

In terms of automated-decision making and profiling:

analytics or evaluation based on computer programme around behavior, interests, hobbies, credit information, health or decision making activities, must be transparent, open and fair, and should not apply any differential treatment between individuals; and
any push information or business marketing should not be directed to an individual’s character and should provide individuals with a convenient way to opt out.

As well as the PIPL, the CSL, Consumer Protection Law and E-Commerce Law offer protection to consumer / user personal information. As well as personal information protection, under these rules data controllers should strengthen management of information provided by users, prohibit the transmission of unlawful information and take necessary measures to remove any infringing content, then report to supervisory authorities. Sufficient notice and adequate consent should be obtained from data subjects prior to the collection and use of personal information. Further obligations are imposed on mobile apps providers including but not limited to conducting real-name identification, undertaking information content review.
In recent years, the regulators have also issued a range of guidelines targeting mobile app providers. These guidelines introduce specific data protection and privacy obligations aiming to regulate the data collection practices and processing activities of mobile app providers. There has also been a crackdown against (suspected) non-compliant mobile apps. Organisations are advised to review their app compliance as a matter of priority.
Data subject rights (under the PIPL and other laws within the personal information framework), include rights to access and obtain information about their data held and processed, to correct their data, to request deletion of data in the event of a data breach, to object to automated decision-making and to de-register their account etc. Most importantly is the right to withdraw consent to personal information processing.
There are currently no specific requirements regarding cookies within existing laws or regulations in the PRC. However, the use of cookies and / or similar tracking technologies, to the extent they constitute processing of personal information, should be notified to data subjects as part of a privacy policy and adequate consent should be obtained from data subjects for such use.Further information
See our Navigating China series&nbsp;for more information on China’s evolving cybersecurity and data protection landscape.